[Overview]

<p>Accelgor is notable in RU, or any tier, for its amazing base 145 Speed, making it one of the fastest Pokemon in the game. Accelgor's Bug typing is decent offensively, and gives Accelgor a set of useful resistances to common attacking types. Accelgor complements its excellent Speed with a fair base 100 Special Attack stat which, along with its good STAB options and strong coverage, makes it a dangerous attacker. Furthermore, in addition to being one of the best and most reliable Spikes users in the game, Accelgor has an excellent support movepool that is superbly designed to frustrate an opponent. Things are not entirely rosy for Accelgor, however. It has absolutely pathetic defenses; almost any neutral attack will OHKO it. Additionally, its Special Attack will frequently find itself lacking, missing out on many crucial KOs. Regardless, whether it is running an attacking set or a support set, Accelgor is a threat to be considered when building a team.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Bug Buzz
move 2: Focus Blast
move 3: Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Spikes / Giga Drain
item: Life Orb / Choice Specs
ability: Sticky Hold
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>With this set, Accelgor attempts to use its good Special Attack and solid neutral coverage to facilitate a sweep. Bug Buzz is Accelgor's strongest and most reliable STAB attack, and is thus its primary attacking option, hitting most Pokemon for neutral damage. Focus Blast is used alongside Bug Buzz to give Accelgor a way to damage the Steel- and Rock-types that resist Bug Buzz. Hidden Power Rock completes Accelgor's coverage, letting it hit Fire- and Flying-types super effectively, notably Moltres, who would otherwise force Accelgor out and greatly threaten the rest of the team. In the last slot, Spikes is a nice option that allows Accelgor to be useful even when faced with walls it can't do much damage to, such as Escavalier. Giga Drain is another good choice; it doesn't add much to Accelgor's coverage, but it does give it a chance to recover some of the HP lost to entry hazards and Life Orb recoil, especially against Water-types such as Lanturn and Poliwrath.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Timid nature is preferable to Modest, as it allows Accelgor to outspeed several common Choice Scarf users, such as Jolly Medicham and Modest Moltres. Furthermore, it ensures that Accelgor can outspeed Pokemon such as Modest Gorebyss and Modest Omastar after a Shell Smash, notable Pokemon to outspeed. Additionally, the power loss is often unnoticeable, still managing to OHKO Lilligant and Moltres with a Life Orb-boosted Bug Buzz and Hidden Power Rock, respectively. Life Orb is the preferred item as Accelgor needs as much additional power as it can muster, while Choice Specs provides even more power at the cost of being locked into one move. Sticky Hold is chosen to ensure that Accelgor is insusceptible to Trick, as being Tricked a Choice item would effectively neutralize it when it is not carrying Choice Specs.</p>

<p>Sludge Bomb is an option for additional neutral coverage; however, Bug Buzz overlaps with its only super effective coverage. When using Choice Specs, U-turn is a great option in the fourth slot, giving Accelgor a useful way to scout opposing switch-ins and gain momentum. Accelgor can also use Recover to heal itself on predicted switches, although it's usually better off firing away with an attack or setting up Spikes on those free turns. Offensive Accelgor greatly appreciates Rapid Spin support due to its vulnerability to all forms of entry hazards, while also appreciating the support of hazards of its own to heighten its sweeping potential. Ghost-types primarily wall Accelgor due to their resistance and immunity to Bug Buzz and Focus Blast, respectively. Pursuit support or strong offensive Dark-types, such as Spiritomb and Absol, are appreciated as teammates.</p>

[SET]
name: Lead
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Final Gambit
move 3: Bug Buzz
move 4: Focus Blast / Hidden Power Rock
item: Focus Sash
ability: Sticky Hold
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a massive base 145 Speed stat and access to Spikes, Accelgor seems like the perfect candidate for a suicide lead. It also has access to a rarely seen move in Final Gambit, which can completely disrupt your opponents, most likely knocking out of one their Pokemon and possibly destroying their spinner. With maximum HP investment, Accelgor reaches 364 HP, allowing it to OHKO the majority of the RU metagame in exchange for its own life. Its ridiculously high Speed stat means that no unboosted Pokemon will be outspeeding Accelgor anytime soon, allowing it to set up at least 1 layer of Spikes (most likely 2 layers thanks to Focus Sash). Even if knocked down to 1 HP, Final Gambit can still be helpful, as it blocks Rapid Spin users from landing their attack, thus preventing them from spinning away your hazards.</p> 

<p>Bug Buzz is a good STAB option, and Focus Blast complements it well, allowing Accelgor to demolish Steel- and Rock-types without having to use Final Gambit to do so. Hidden Power Rock is an alternative to Focus Blast, and can be used in order to deal a massive amount of damage to Moltres and, more importantly, defeat Aerodactyl and Scolipede one-on-one.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Timid nature with 252 Speed EVs lets Accelgor outrun the entirety of the unboosted RU metagame, capping out at an amazing 427 Speed. Maximum HP investment is used in order to allow for Final Gambit to deal 364 points of direct damage to the opposition when Accelgor is at full health. Sticky Hold is the ability of choice, completely disrupting Trick users such as Rotom. Focus Sash is used in order to let Accelgor live a hit, basically guaranteeing at least 2 layers of Spikes if you choose. This Accelgor is naturally very good on offensive teams, providing Spikes and possibly knocking out the opponent's Rapid Spin user. Partners with Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes are appreciated, as this Accelgor can demolish opposing spinners, thus making your other hazards much more deadly. Every sweeper will benefit from this Pokemon, enjoying the luxury of being able to destroy the opposition much more easily with hazard support.</p> 

<p>Giga Drain is an option in the last slot, letting Accelgor hit Water-types and Rhydon harder, but the coverage provided by Focus Blast and Hidden Power Rock is usually much more useful. Yawn is also an option in order to potentially cripple one of the enemy's Pokemon; however, Final Gambit makes Yawn somewhat redundant. U-turn is another option, letting Accelgor scout out the opponent and bring in one of its teammates for a more reasonable match-up, but again, Final Gambit makes it relatively useless. Finally, Recover is also an option in order to restore Accelgor's HP, and can work well in tandem with Final Gambit.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Encore
move 1: Encore
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Baton Pass / Bug Buzz
move 4: Bug Buzz / Focus Blast
item: Leftovers
ability: Sticky Hold
nature: Timid
evs: 208 HP / 48 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Accelgor can play the role of both a momentum thief and team supporter. By using enough Speed EVs to beat even Jolly Choice Scarf Medicham—and, occasionally, its useful resistances to Ground, Grass, and Fighting—it can come in on a large number of Pokemon attempting to set up and Encore the set-up move in order to render them helpless. The key to this set is Substitute; it eases prediction for Accelgor, and when used in conjunction with Baton Pass, a teammate can get in safely without fearing status. In addition, should the Substitute manage to stay intact, you get even more momentum. Bug Buzz lets Accelgor finish off weakened opponents if the opportunity presents itself; it goes some way to hide this set's true purpose, and is a generally useful STAB move. The fact that this set can even set up in the face of Trick is just the icing on the cake.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is used to allow Accelgor to make 5 Substitutes instead of 4 if it's at full health, letting it stall out field effects such as rain and Trick Room if need be. If you are using 2 attacks instead of Baton Pass, an alternate spread of 16 HP / 240 SpA / 252 Spe is suggested to maintain the same effect while letting Accelgor threaten things more directly. Focus Blast is an excellent move for this purpose, dealing with Aggron, Klinklang, and Steelix—all of which are common switch-ins to Accelgor. Other options include Hidden Power Rock to deal with opponents that resist this combination such as Moltres and Scyther or Hidden Power Ghost to deal with opposing bulky Ghost-types.</p>

<p>Because this set has a rather nasty case of four-moveslot syndrome, there will always be something that isn't covered; partners for this set should be considered with this in mind. If Accelgor lacks Focus Blast, Klinklang gives this set trouble, outspeeding Accelgor after Shift Gear and not worrying about Substitute thanks to Gear Grind. While Whimsicott is not likely to switch into Accelgor for fear of Bug Buzz, other Prankster users such as Murkrow and Volbeat are not friendly to this set. For both of these reasons, Steelix makes a great partner, as it is immune to Thunder Wave, laughs at Klinklang, and phazes away any of the opponent's boosts. Speaking of Prankster, priority is another worry for this set; as such, Lanturn pairs well with this set, resisting Aqua Jet while threatening Entei, the main ExtremeSpeed user.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>With access to Baton Pass, Acid Armor, Agility, and Curse, Accelgor is capable of effectively utilizing Baton Pass, passing Defense or Speed boosts to slower Pokemon that appreciate the boosts and can then attempt to sweep the opponent. For example, Eviolite Rhydon with a Curse and an Agility becomes very threatening for the opponent to deal with, either attacking them outright or setting up further boosts on the switch. When using Curse, White Herb is a useful item as it nullifies the stat drop in Speed. Me First is a niche move, but can be used on occasion to find surprise kills on Pokemon such as Altaria, which is OHKOed by its own Draco Meteor. Acid Spray can be used to weaken an opponents switch-in, halving their Special Defense and setting them up for a heavy blow the following turn.</p>

<p>Encore can be used to gain free attacking or setup turns by locking an opponent into a non-damaging move. Despite the lack of Taunt, Accelgor can attempt to aid in wall breaking through the use of Toxic. Guard Split can be used to weaken opposing walls while simultaneously boosting its own defenses. Access to Struggle Bug allows Accelgor to function as a last-ditch check to special attackers, lowering their Special Attack. Pursuit can be used to ensure that weakened opponents do not survive; however, its low base Attack means that the opponent would have to be severely weakened for this strategy to work. Accelgor can also function on rain teams, being the fastest user of Rain Dance in the tier. Accelgor can then benefit by gaining a status immunity with its secondary ability, Hydration.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Accelgor lacks overwhelming power, so Pokemon with strong Special Defense such as Cryogonal can sit in front of Accelgor all day with little issue. Other notable special walls that will beat Accelgor easily include Drapion, Roselia and Mandibuzz. Taunt users such as Drapion will completely shut down the lead set, although Accelgor will outspeed all common users of the move and still get a layer of Spikes up in the end. Fire-, Flying-, and Ghost-types all resist Accelgor's primary offensive options and can threaten with super effective attacks or whittle down Accelgor with Shadow Ball in return, in the case of Ghost-types. Entei is a great example of a Fire-type check to Accelgor, switching in on anything other than Hidden Power Rock and OHKOing with ExtremeSpeed. Status ruins Accelgor, particularly paralysis which strips it of its primary asset.</p>