[Overview]

<p>Aerodactyl's typing and Speed allows it to perform multiple roles on a team. Aerodactyl is a great pivot for offensive teams thanks to its typing, which grants it resistances to common types such as Fire- and Normal-type attacks; it also has reliable recovery with Roost, so it can take advantage of any lull in a battle.</p>

<p>The Rock / Flying typing is a double-edged sword because it leaves Aerodactyl vulnerable to common Water-, Ice-, and Electric-type attacks. A weakness to Stealth Rock means that Aerodactyl will need support from its team to reach its full potential, otherwise Stealth Rock will be a constant annoyance by draining Aerodactyl's health. Aerodactyl's Speed and high offensive pressure makes it a fantastic presence on heavy offensive teams, but its utility on more defensive teams is a bit limited due to its frailty. Although, combining the power of a Life Orb or Choice Band wielder with the Speed of most Choice Scarf users is a beautiful thing to have. Finally, don't use Aerodactyl as a dedicated lead; its glory days as a DPP OU lead are far behind it.</p>

[SET]
name: Life Orb
move 1: Stone Edge
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Fire Blast / Double-Edge
move 4: Roost
item: Life Orb
ability: Pressure / Rock Head
nature: Hasty / Jolly
evs: 220 Atk / 36 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set combines all of Aerodactyl's positive traits to maximize its potential. With its high Speed,  Aerodactyl can act as a backup revenge killer for offensive teams that cannot afford to have an additional Choice Scarf user. Slower, defensive teams enjoy Aerodactyl because it's a non-Choice item revenge killer, and can break down stall that lacks its counters. Aerodactyl's Speed is so great that it can even outspeed some Choice Scarf Pokemon, such as Emboar and Braviary. Thanks to its typing, Aerodactyl can switch into them directly, although it must be careful of coverage attacks. Aerodactyl's function on an offensive team is to wallbreak and act as a pivot that can switch into Fire-types like Moltres and Entei and outspeed them while threatening to hit them with Stone Edge. This variant of Aerodactyl is self-sufficient, barring its Stealth Rock weakness, because it can take down its own counters with Fire Blast.</p>

<p>Stone Edge is Aerodactyl's strongest Rock-type STAB, but it has shaky accuracy. Earthquake is a strong attack with great coverage to hit grounded Fire- or Poison-type Pokemon such as Entei or Drapion without relying on Stone Edge's accuracy. Fire Blast is used to take down the Pokemon that could otherwise withstand Aerodactyl's attacks, particularly Ferroseed, Tangrowth, and Steelix. Fire Blast 2HKOes the mentioned counters, and with the given EVs always OHKOes Escavalier and Durant. Double-Edge is a great alternative neutral attack that takes advantage of Rock Head and offers a perfectly accurate attack for Aerodactyl. Roost finalizes the set by granting Aerodactyl reliable recovery to mitigate damage upon switching in and Life Orb recoil.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The suggested EVs maximize Aerodactyl's Speed and allow it to outspeed opposing Swellow, Sceptile, and Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Emboar and Braviary. The 36 Special Attack EVs are to guarantee the OHKO on Escavalier with Fire Blast. A Hasty nature is needed with Fire Blast, whereas Jolly is better with Double-Edge. If Double-Edge is used, then the 36 Special Attack EVs should be allocated to Attack. If outspeeding Swellow and the mentioned Choice Scarf users is not a concern, then the Speed EVs can be reduced to 176, which still allows it to outspeed Sceptile, and the rest can go into HP to garner a minimal increase in bulk. If a Stealth Rock user is needed, then Aerodactyl can fulfill that role thanks to its high Speed; however, with Stealth Rock Aerodactyl will either not be able to take down its counters, or its longevity will be severely shortened. Taunt is another great choice for its ability to shut down defensive Pokemon or Pokemon looking to set up on Aerodactyl. Rock Slide is a potential replacement for Stone Edge thanks to its greater accuracy and flinch rate, but is a weaker alternative and is only considered because of Aerodactyl's speed. Aqua Tail is an option if Rhydon, Crustle, and Sandslash are problems for your team, but it has no use outside hitting these Pokemon. Aerial Ace allows Aerodactyl to 2HKO Poliwrath, who would otherwise counter it, with entry hazard support, and also allows it to revenge kill Gallade. If Aerodactyl is purely going to be used as a lead, then Focus Sash is an option alongside Stealth Rock and Taunt, but this choice wastes Aerodactyl's talents.</p>

<p>Aerodactyl is meant to be on an offensively-oriented team, so its optimal partners are those that can take advantage of Aerodactyl's ability to take down its own counters, and have good type and offensive synergy. Partners that can utilize Aerodactyl's removal of Grass-types via Fire Blast are great. Kabutops has a hard time taking down Ferroseed and Tangrowth, and it will have a much easier time with them gone. Kabutops can also spin for Aerodactyl, so Stealth Rock will not be a problem. Similarly, Feraligatr likes Ferroseed and Tangrowth gone, so that it can sweep with Dragon Dance or Swords Dance. Cinccino is a partner that likes having Steelix removed and can bring Aerodactyl in with U-turn. Offensive Grass-type Pokemon don't mind switching into bulky Water-types like Slowking and Poliwrath and can threaten them out. Lilligant, Rotom-C, and offensive Tangrowth are a few partners that don't mind switching into a Thunder Wave or Scald. In return, Aerodactyl can take Fire-type attacks or common priority attacks, such as ExtremeSpeed, aimed at them.</p>

<p>As eluded to earlier, Stealth Rock reduces Aerodactyl's ability to switch in repeatedly, so a Rapid Spin user is a great partner. Kabutops is a great partner that likes the removal of Grass-types, and it can take down Choice Scarf Pokemon with Aqua Jet that are looking to take out Aerodactyl, although Kabutops and Aerodactyl have no notable type synergy apart from Aerodactyl's immunity to Ground. Cryogonal is another option for its ability to switch into specially oriented threats like Amoonguss, and it can Toxic bulky Water-types. Because all the Pokemon that can handle Aerodactyl are grounded, Aerodactyl really appreciates entry hazard support. Smeargle and Scolipede are good Spikes users that can quickly set them up for heavy offensive teams. Qwilfish and Crustle are also good choices for Pokemon that can fulfill more roles than purely setting up Spikes, and they benefit more on balanced offensive teams.</p>

<p>Traditionally, it's hard to counter Aerodactyl because some of its counters are taken out with Fire Blast, and with its high Speed it's very difficult to stop Stealth Rock from going up. Additionally, Taunt cannot be countered outside of Magic Bounce. To beat this variant of Aerodactyl, it is necessary to KO it before it becomes a problem. Choice Scarf Pokemon like Rotom-C or Manectric can switch into Aerodactyl, although Manectric needs to be more careful when it switches in, and put Aerodactyl in a difficult position where they can severely damage it with their Electric-type STAB or use Volt Switch to maintain momentum. Bulky Water-types can minimize the damage that Aerodactyl causes. Poliwrath is a great Pokemon, if Aerodactyl doesn't have Aerial Ace, and can phaze Aerodactyl with Circle Throw or burn it with Scald. Qwilfish can switch in with Intimidate, but needs to tread lightly to avoid Earthquake. Physically defensive Slowking can use Thunder Wave, Scald, or Trick Room to take down Aerodactyl.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Stone Edge
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Aqua Tail
move 4: Double-Edge
item: Choice Band
ability: Rock Head
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is more singular in focus, and can attack while switching in with minimal damage taken. In addition, team support is crucial to this set's success, due to Aerodactyl's Stealth Rock weakness and frail defenses. The hit-and-run attitude of this set emphasizes smart prediction and switching; it is best to switch Aerodactyl into Ground-type, weak neutral, or resisted attacks. This set works differently than other Choice Band users thanks to Aerodactyl's high Speed, which lets it almost always attack first, and its useful resistances.</p>

<p>Stone Edge is Aerodactyl's strongest Rock-type STAB. Earthquake is a great neutral attack to hit threats like Entei, Qwilfish, and Aggron, although you must exercise caution, as Levitate or Flying-type Pokemon can capitalize on Earthquake. Aqua Tail rounds out Aerodactyl's coverage by hitting Ground-types such as Rhydon, which would otherwise be major annoyances. Double-Edge provides great neutral coverage and is a great fall-back for Aerodactyl due to its perfect accuracy, and it also takes advantage of Rock Head.</p>

[Additional Comments]

<p>The suggested EVs maximize Aerodactyl's damage output, and a Jolly nature takes advantage of Aerodactyl's high Speed. Maximizing Aerodactyl's Speed is important because it can outspeed Swellow and certain Choice Scarf Pokemon, such as Emboar and Braviary. If outspeeding the mentioned Pokemon is of no concern, then dropping the Speed EVs to 176 still outspeeds Sceptile, and the rest can go into HP for a little additional bulk. Rock Head is the preferred ability thanks to its ability to neutralize Double-Edge's recoil.</p>

<p>This set works best on offensively-geared teams due to its frailness and dangerous playstyle. Also, courtesy of its Speed, Aerodactyl can act as a secondary revenge killer for offensive teams, revenge killing threats like Dragon Dance Feraligatr and Choice Scarf Medicham. Caution needs to be taken when using this set due to Aerodactyl's frailty and Stealth Rock weakness. The power given by Choice Band allows Aerodactyl to achieve KOs that it wouldn't otherwise get, such as the 2HKO on defensive Amoonguss and the OHKO on Lilligant after Stealth Rock. This set needs a partner with good offensive synergy that can take down Aerodactyl's counters. Mixed Druddigon fits the bill perfectly thanks to its ability to lure out Ferroseed and Tangrowth with its physical Dragon-type STAB and hit them with a Flamethrower, and Outrage will severely hurt any bulky Water-types. Another good partner is Bouffalant for its ability to switch into Grass-type attacks with Sap Sipper and set up a Substitute and Swords Dance, or form a one-two combo by also utilizing Choice Band. Rotom-C is another great partner to have because it can take down bulky Water-types with either its Grass- or Electric-type STAB, and can help weaken the opposing team with Volt Switch and keep momentum on your side. Rotom-C can also utilize Will-O-Wisp, so Aerodactyl can have an easier time switching into physical attackers. Rotom-C has trouble with Grass-type Pokemon and so does Aerodactyl, but Rotom-C can take out problematic Pokemon like Ferroseed with Hidden Power Fire.</p>

<p>Due to the constant switching of a Choice Band set and Aerodactyl's Stealth Rock weakness, a Rapid Spin user is imperative to the success of this set. Kabutops is a good spinner and applies offensive pressure. Cryogonal is another good spinner, and it can switch into special threats like Slowking and use Toxic. This set is a bit more difficult to directly counter due to the higher damage output from Choice Band, but Pokemon that can easily survive Aerodactyl's attacks are Tangrowth, Ferroseed, and Torterra; however, they all need to keep an eye out for Fire Blast or a partner that is specially designed to take out Grass-type Pokemon. Bulky Water-types can also minimize the damage caused by Aerodactyl. Qwilfish with Intimidate is a great buffer to hold back Aerodactyl as long as it avoids Earthquake. Poliwrath can take Aerodactyl's attacks all day and burn it with Scald or phaze it out with Circle Throw. Physically defensive Slowking can take some assaults and has a multitude of options to retaliate with; it can attack with Scald, paralyze with Thunder Wave, or use Trick Room and flip everything on its head. Quagsire is another great switch-in and has reliable recovery, and in return can burn Aerodactyl with Scald. The best way to contain this set is to predict its attacks beforehand and capitalize on them, because constant switching will eventually take its toll on Aerodactyl with its subpar defenses and Stealth Rock weakness.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>The options above are Aerodactyl's best sets, but Aerodactyl does have other attacks to surprise its opponents. Aerodactyl can try its hand at utilizing Hone Claws, which would definitely help with Stone Edge's accuracy, but its frail defenses will make it difficult to consistently set up. The combination of Power Herb and Sky Attack can surprise Grass-types like Tangrowth and Amoonguss, but it's a one-time use. Aerodactyl has all the elemental fangs at its disposal, but they all have paltry Base Power, and Fire Blast is better in every instance for its ability to take out Tangrowth and Steelix in addition to Ferroseed. Aerodactyl can utilize Sunny Day and Rain Dance with the respective weather Rock, which can work thanks to its high Speed and the ability to disrupt its opponent with Taunt. Toxic can be used to surprise some walls like Slowking and Quagsire that would otherwise force Aerodactyl out. Aerodactyl can utilize RestTalk in conjunction with Whirlwind or Roar, which gives it the ability to phaze very quickly with Sleep Talk.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Aerodactyl is a bit difficult to beat because its high Speed means it will get two attacks on a switch-in before fainting, so a Pokemon that can consistently take a beating is your best bet to take it down. Tangrowth will be impossible for Aerodactyl to bypass if it lacks Fire Blast, and Tangrowth can use Sleep Powder, heal with Leech Seed or Synthesis, or simply wear down Aerodactyl with its attacks. Physically defensive Slowking will be very difficult for Aerodactyl, and the only way for Aerodactyl to take it down is to get a critical hit with Stone Edge. Slowking has a multitude of options to handle Aerodactyl with; Thunder Wave cuts Aerodactyl's Speed, Scald will KO, and Trick Room can be used to start a counter sweep with Slowking. Quagsire is a great choice to take down Aerodactyl with Recover and Scald. Choice Scarf Pokemon can be used to revenge kill Aerodactyl but you need to make sure that they are faster than Jolly Aerodactyl, otherwise it will be for naught. Choice Scarf users like Rotom or Lilligant are good choices because they can take out Aerodactyl quickly and can always reliably outspeed it. Priority is another method to take down Aerodactyl: Aqua Jet from the likes of Kabutops, Feraligatr, and Carracosta can quickly take care of Aerodactyl. Sucker Punch from Pokemon such as Spiritomb and Absol is another choice to take out a weakened Aerodactyl, but they need to be careful Aerodactyl doesn't use Roost.</p>