[Overview]

<p>Alomomola has obviously been keeping tabs on its cholesterol, because it's just about the healthiest heart around! Sporting a massive base 165 HP stat backed by a respectable base 80 Defense stat, Alomomola is extremely bulky, being able to take nearly every unboosted physical attack in the tier with HP to spare. Furthermore, Regenerator allows Alomomola to switch in and out and heal passively, making the task of wearing it down a chore. These traits allow Alomomola to make for an excellent user of Wish, being able to pass massive amounts of HP to teammates with no direct negative repercussions. Unfortunately, the issues with Alomomola lie in the indirect consequences of its use: due to its low offensive presence, Alomomola is incredibly exploitable, with most setup sweepers and hazard users being capable of switching into it and setting up without much trouble. This lack of offensive capability means Alomomola can only function effectively as a defensive pivot and Wish supporter, as this is the only way to limit the opportunities for the opponent to take advantage of its presence and to differentiate it from more wholly versatile Pokemon such as Slowking and Clefable. Nevertheless, Alomomola excels in this role. As it stands, Alomomola is one of, if not the most durable Wish users in the tier, and as long as the team it is supporting is prepared to take on the Pokemon it innately attracts, it will very rarely disappoint.</p>

[SET]
name: Wish Support
move 1: Wish
move 2: Waterfall 
move 3: Protect
move 4: Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Regenerator
nature: Impish 
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With its impressive physical bulk, Alomomola is capable of taking on most of the tier's non-boosting physical attackers with ease. Alomomola's gargantuan HP stat makes it capable of passing a huge Wish off to teammates, enough to completely rejuvenate frailer Pokemon such as Durant. Waterfall is Alomomola's best bet at dealing direct damage to opposing Pokemon, allowing it to hit Pokemon such as Entei and Kabutops for respectable damage. Protect offers Alomomola a useful "safety net" option, allowing it to scout Choice users as well as guaranteeing it can receive its own Wish safely. Lastly, Toxic gives Alomomola a weapon to hit Grass-, Water-, and Dragon-types switching into it, allowing it to put a timer on such Pokemon and prevent them from setting up on it for free.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Though a physical bias is preferred to take advantage of Alomomola's better Defense stat and the higher number of physically based immediate attackers it can feasibly check, a more specially inclined spread of 36 HP / 252 Def / 220 SpD or 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD can be used to allow Alomomola to better take on Choice Specs users, such as Slowking and Typhlosion. Scald, along with a Bold nature, can be used over Waterfall, allowing Alomomola the chance to burn Pokemon on the switch. However, it should be noted that Alomomola will be doing very little damage directly with this move when taking into account its minuscule base 40 Special Attack, making it even more vulnerable to Substitute users. An investment in Special Attack can be made when using Scald to mitigate this issue, though it does noticeably detract from Alomomola's ability to take repeated powerful hits. Considering how uncommon it is for Alomomola to use its attacking moves, Healing Wish is actually a very viable option. Though when played well, Alomomola can survive through the entirety of the match, a point is often reached at which it becomes more exploitable than helpful; Healing Wish allows Alomomola to be useful one last time by completely rejuvenating a teammate, allowing a sweeper or heavy hitter to gain a second chance to do its job. Considering Alomomola's access to multiple sources of recovery, Rocky Helmet is a usable option over Leftovers, allowing it to passively wear down physical attackers such as Entei and Druddigon.</p>

<p>The best partners for Alomomola are those that can appreciate its Wishes and take on the stat-boosting Pokemon that it innately lures in. Druddigon and Escavalier are both very solid teammates in this regard, being capable of shrugging off the Grass- and Electric-type attacks aimed at Alomomola and in turn can steamroll through various Pokemon with their powerful attacks. Both Pokemon are rather vulnerable to being worn down, so Wish support from Alomomola is greatly appreciated. Magneton is also a very solid partner, resisting both Electric- and Grass-type attacks and being able to threaten Water-types that Alomomola can only Toxic, as well as trapping Pokemon such as Klinklang and Ferroseed that would otherwise switch into Alomomola repeatedly and set up on it. Grass-types also provide good defensive synergy with Alomomola. Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Roselia are able to take Electric- and Grass-type attacks aimed at Alomomola without much hassle, with the former forming a bulky Regenerator core with Alomomola and the latter being capable of setting up Spikes to wear down the Pokemon that threaten Alomomola. Cryogonal is also a solid partner to Alomomola, using Rapid Spin to prevent Alomomola from being worn down by hazard damage and offering a solid special wall with access to Haze to prevent setup sweepers such as Lilligant from getting out of hand.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As Alomomola's niche in the tier is somewhat exclusive to taking on non-boosting attackers and using Wish, it is largely restricted in what other options it can realistically use. Calm Mind is a neat idea for mitigating its lower Special Defense and allowing Scald to hit harder, but it would realistically need to set up for several turns to be dealing respectable damage with its attacks&mdash;a highly unrealistic feat, considering offensive teams will be capable of breaking through it before it becomes threatening, and defensive teams will simply phaze it away or cripple it with status before it becomes dangerous. Similar to Calm Mind, Light Screen can be used to buffer Alomomola and its team against special attacks for a period of time without the need to stay in over a period of time. Safeguard is also available to temporarily protect Alomomola and its teammates from status. Hydration is an interesting ability that could allow Alomomola to constantly revitalize itself in rain by using Rest, but with turns of rain being valuable to a rain team for attacking with powerful sweepers, it is highly counterproductive to be wasting them attempting to wall Pokemon.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>While very few Pokemon can actually stop Alomomola from using Wish directly, there are certainly Pokemon that take advantage of and threaten it. Defensively speaking, Spikes users such as Qwilfish, Ferroseed, and Roselia are capable of setting up hazards for free on Alomomola, being immune to Toxic and resistant to Waterfall. Toxic users can cripple Alomomola, putting it on a timer each time it comes in. Grass-types, particularly specially offensive ones such as Sceptile and Lilligant, switch in with impunity on anything but Toxic and can set up all over Alomomola and threaten it with their STAB attacks. As for setup sweepers, Pokemon carrying Lum Berry, Substitute, or an immediately threatening Electric- or Grass-type attack can for the most part find opportunities to set up on Alomomola and beat it one-on-one. Examples of these include Swords Dance Gallade, Dragon Dance Crawdaunt, and Quiver Dance Lilligant.</p>