[Overview]

<p>The volcanic camel with a unique Fire / Ground typing might not seem like much; it has an abysmal base 40 Speed, and is nowhere near the definition of bulky. Contrary to most slow Pokemon, Camerupt only has 70 / 70 / 75 bulk, making it frail as well; even with Solid Rock, Camerupt is not going to survive any super effective hits thanks to its miserable bulk. A slight tremor in the tectonic plates might shatter the volcanoes on Camerupt into dozens of pieces. Camerupt is as slow as a snail; even the turtle-like Torterra is faster than it. Despite all these setbacks, Camerupt is a Pokemon that is worth a second glance. Camerupt has a decent base 100 Attack and a slightly higher base 105 Special Attack, and in RU its STAB moves are resisted by only Charizard and Moltres. Furthermore, its great typing grants it only two weaknesses, namely Ground and Water. Despite Camerupt's low Speed, it is a decent sweeper that can plow through weakened teams provided it has Trick Room support or time to set up.</p>

[SET]
name: Rock Polish
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Earth Power
move 4: Stone Edge
item: Life Orb
ability: Solid Rock
nature: Rash / Mild
evs: 40 Atk / 252 SpA / 216 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Camerupt has a pathetic base 40 Speed, making it one of the slowest Pokemon in RU; Rock Polish aims to remedy this Speed problem. Although Camerupt might not seem to be going anywhere even after a Rock Polish, it can actually outspeed positive base 105 Speed Pokemon, which is an impressive feat. At +2 Speed, not many Pokemon in RU can outpace this camel on a rampage. Fire Blast and Earth Power are Camerupt's STAB moves, making use of its higher Special Attack, and providing excellent coverage. Stone Edge is used on the last slot to shoot down Charizard and Moltres, who would otherwise wall Camerupt to kingdom come. With a Rock Polish under its belt, Camerupt can decimate a good portion of RU. Physical walls such as Tangrowth and Drapion are easily trampled under its tremendous weight, while special walls such as Slowking are still troubled as Camerupt hits the entire of RU for at least neutral damage. Thanks to its wide coverage, Rock Polish Camerupt is not easy to wall, unless you pack a special wall that can switch in on a resisted move. However, once those are out of its way, Camerupt can easily plow through everything in its path.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread and a positive nature maximizes Camerupt's Special Attack, and allows it to outpace base 105 Speed Pokemon after a Rock Polish. The remaining EVs are placed into Attack to give Stone Edge some extra power. Life Orb is the preferred item to increase Camerupt's damage output. Flamethrower can be used over Fire Blast for its better accuracy, though Camerupt will need the extra firepower granted by Fire Blast. Ancient Power or Hidden Power Rock can be used over Stone Edge for a special Rock-type attack. Hidden Power Grass is yet another viable option to hit bulky Water-types, such as Slowking, super effectively. However, this will mean that Camerupt is easily walled by the aforementioned Moltres and Charizard. Explosion can be used in the final slot as a last resort, allowing Camerupt to go down with a bang. A positive Speed nature can be used to allow Camerupt to outpace Sceptile, though it isn't really required as Sceptile usually flee in fear of a super effective Fire-type attack. Furthermore, the additional power given by a Special Attack-boosting nature is much appreciated. Camerupt can also attempt a physically oriented Rock Polish set with 252 Atk / 40 SpA / 216 Spe, Earthquake instead of Earth Power, and either a Naughty or Lonely nature. Physical attackers are great teammates to remove the special walls that might trouble Camerupt. Feraligatr is a good teammate that can set up Dragon Dance or Swords Dance on these Pokemon, complementing well with Camerupt.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Attacker
move 1: Fire Blast
move 2: Earth Power
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Earthquake
item: Life Orb
ability: Solid Rock
nature: Quiet
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 SpA
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Camerupt can use its pitifully low Speed stat to its advantage; its pathetic base 40 Speed automatically makes Camerupt a prime candidate to abuse Trick Room. In Trick Room, Camerupt laughs heartily at the opponents that usually outspeed it, assaulting them easily. Not much can outspeed the extremely slow camel when Trick Room is present, meaning that Camerupt can roast most of its opponents before they can slap it with an attack. As Camerupt no longer has to invest in Speed EVs, it can afford to maximize both its Attack and Special Attack EVs. By doing so, Camerupt becomes a great mixed attacker and can easily bypass most walls. With perfect coverage, Camerupt is pretty hard to wall; nothing can stop it from rampaging. As most of Camerupt's checks are faster than it, they usually fail to beat it thanks to Trick Room. Fire Blast is the strongest STAB move which Camerupt can reliably use; its only drawback is its imperfect accuracy. Having both Earthquake and Earth Power might seem weird initially, but it allows Camerupt to pick its poison by targeting the opponent's lower stat with the appropriate move, while receiving a STAB boost. Stone Edge rounds up the coverage for this set, literally shooting down two birds with one stone.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With absolutely no Speed EVs required, the EV spread allows Camerupt to go on the offensive with both physical and special moves. 0 Speed IVs are used to further lower Camerupt's already pathetic Speed stat to a mere 76. Ancient Power can be used over Stone Edge to make use of Camerupt's higher Special Attack. Macho Brace can be used instead of Life Orb to further lower Camerupt's Speed, though it isn't really necessary and the Life Orb boost is too good to pass up. Explosion is an interesting option to consider, and can be used during the last turn of Trick Room or when Camerupt is on low health, as Camerupt is nothing more than a dead weight without Trick Room. As with all Trick Room abusers, Camerupt needs teammates that can set up Trick Room for it. Slowking is an excellent partner for this role, as it often attracts Electric-type attacks that Camerupt can switch into. Other Trick Room sweepers, such as Torterra, pair up well with Camerupt; Torterra is able to dispose of the bulky Water-types that try to wall Camerupt.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Camerupt's huge volcanoes on its back store plenty of support options to choose from. It has access to great support moves such as Stealth Rock, Yawn, Will-O-Wisp, and Toxic. The aforementioned status moves are great for crippling the walls that Camerupt often attracts, and Yawn is useful as a phazing move if the opponent does not want to have a Pokemon lying in slumber. A support set with Stealth Rock and a couple other support moves and Lava Plume might be good, though its low defenses will mean that it will often be unable to make the best out of its great defensive typing. Stockpile boosts Camerupt's relatively poor defenses to acceptable levels. Furthermore, Solid Rock lets Camerupt take on super effective hits more easily after a few boosts. Camerupt can support a sun team with Sunny Day, though that is better left to Pokemon which are better suited for a dedicated weather support set. However, with Sunny Day, Camerupt can also launch powerful SolarBeams at bulky Water-types. One word that describes Camerupt is 'slow.' It has access to STAB Bulldoze and Flame Charge which can be used in an attempt to alleviate its Speed problems. Eruption is a powerful option if you can keep the field clear of entry hazards. Choice Specs Eruption is bound to cause serious damage to anything that does not resist it. Anger Point might seem useful to maximize Camerupt's Attack in the event of a critical hit; however, Camerupt's frailty often means that it can't even survive most critical hits, and it is unable to make full use of a +6 Attack anyway. Still, it might be an interesting option if Camerupt is using a physically oriented EV spread.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Camerupt is the definition of slow, and anything that is faster than it can easily be a check to Camerupt. Priority users can easily destroy Camerupt thanks to its low defenses. Aqua Jet from Kabutops and Feraligatr can make quick work of Camerupt. Choice Scarf users are often great checks to Rock Polish Camerupt as they can easily revenge kill it. Bulky Water-types such as Slowking handle Camerupt well, though they have to watch out for attacks from the Trick Room set as it has the ability to target the lower of their defenses. Dusknoir can take most hits comfortably and proceed to Earthquake it. Mandibuzz's decent Defense stat and access to Roost allows it to take Stone Edge without much difficulty, and can put Camerupt on a timer with Toxic. While the Trick Room attacker set is able to bypass most walls, once Trick Room ends, Camerupt is not much of a threat; almost anything can take it down when it is weakened if one manages to outstall Trick Room.</p>