[Overview]

<p>Finally uncovered after decades of slumbering beneath the ancient pyramids of Egypt, Cofagrigus continues to serve its master with undying dedication. Its amazing physical bulk stops most physical attacks, while its Ghost typing blocks Rapid Spin, keeping any entry hazards on your opponent's side of the field. Cofagrigus's unique ability Mummy acts like a curse, afflicting all those who dare to disturb the coffin; Pokemon such as Medicham and Hitmonchan who are dependent on their abilities will find themselves in a hopeless situation. One might think that such a defensively-oriented Pokemon would be unable to deal much damage; however, Cofagrigus's good base 95 Special Attack allows it to annihilate frail sweepers and even sweep itself with the aid of Nasty Plot and Trick Room, which turns Cofagrigus's low Speed into a terrifying asset. Unfortunately, years of waiting in dusty tombs have taken a toll on Cofagrigus's health. Its HP stat is abysmal, and its Special Defense is only average; Cofagrigus can easily be broken by powerful special attacks such as Moltres's Fire Blast. However, Cofagrigus's perfect blend of offense and defense ensures that it continues to be a common sight on RU battlefields.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Nasty Plot
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Hidden Power Fighting
item: Leftovers
nature: Quiet
evs: 252 HP / 252 SpA / 4 SpD
ivs: 2 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Cofagrigus's Special Attack only sits at a modest base 95, it can quickly boost its Special Attack to terrifying levels with Nasty Plot. Cofagrigus's pitiful Speed also appears to hold it back from sweeping, yet Cofagrigus can once again turn the tables on its foe with Trick Room. With Trick Room in effect, Cofagrigus suddenly turns from slow as molasses to a speed demon capable of outpacing the majority of the tier. Even with investment in its offenses, Cofagrigus's natural defensive prowess ensures that it can comfortably set up both Nasty Plot and Trick Room before decimating the opponent. Shadow Ball is Cofagrigus's most powerful attack; it has STAB and no negative side effects, meaning that it can be reliably used. Hidden Power Fighting provides perfect two move coverage with Shadow Ball, taking down the Dark-, Normal-, and Steel-types that resist Shadow Ball. Cofagrigus is a unique sweeper in a tier that consists of many fast Pokemon such as Sceptile and Manectric; Trick Room turns most offensive teams' greatest advantage into a liability.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Special Attack is maximized and a Quiet nature is used to give Cofagrigus's attacks as much power as possible. As Cofagrigus will be using Trick Room to sweep, no Speed EVs and a Quiet nature ensure that Cofagrigus will be as fast as possible under Trick Room. Cofagrigus's Speed IV is also lowered to further reduce its Speed. However, 2 Speed IVs are kept so Hidden Power Fighting hits with 70 Base Power. Although a Life Orb may seem a natural fit on a Pokemon as offensive as Cofagrigus, Leftovers is actually the main item as Cofagrigus will need to rely on its valuable bulk to set up both Trick Room and Nasty Plot. However, Life Orb can still be used if you want the extra power. Hidden Power Ground has similar coverage with Hidden Power Fighting; however, it hits Pokemon such as Lanturn, Drapion, and Nidoqueen harder than Hidden Power Fighting. Keep in mind though, that with Hidden Power Ground, Cofagrigus is unable to hit Pokemon such as Clefable and Braviary.</p>

<p>While Cofagrigus has an excellent Defense stat, its Special Defense leaves it vulnerable to common special attackers. Therefore, a sturdy special wall such as Clefable is an excellent teammate. Not only does Clefable comfortably sponge special attacks, it can also support Cofagrigus with Wish and Heal Bell. In return, Cofagrigus can absorb Fighting-type attacks and set up on powerful physical attackers that threaten Clefable. Offensively, Aggron is also an excellent teammate as it covers Cofagrigus's weaknesses to Dark- and Ghost-type attacks while Cofagrigus takes Fighting-type attacks. Entry hazards can help Cofagrigus's sweep immensely; with the support of Stealth Rock, Cofagrigus can OHKO Steelix, Electivire, and Typhlosion at +2. As Cofagrigus is a Ghost-type, it can keep entry hazards on your opponent's side of the field by blocking any attempts to use Rapid Spin.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Shadow Ball
move 2: Will-O-Wisp
move 3: Haze
move 4: Pain Split
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 152 Def / 104 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Cofagrigus can take advantage of its excellent defensive stats with a defensive set. In a tier filled with Fighting-types, Cofagrigus finds many opportunities to switch in and cripple something with Will-O-Wisp. Almost every unboosted physical attacker that cannot hit Cofagrigus super effectively will be unable to 2HKO it. Shadow Ball is Cofagrigus's STAB move of choice, and even without investment, it hits fairly hard thanks to STAB and Cofagrigus's base 95 Special Attack. Will-O-Wisp builds up residual damage on the opponent and maims any physical attacker hoping to set up on Cofagrigus. Haze removes stat boosts from greedy Pokemon such as Substitute + Calm Mind Uxie and Lilligant who look to use Cofagrigus as setup bait. Lastly, Pain Split is Cofagrigus's most reliable healing move. Cofagrigus's rather small HP stat means that it can often suck large amounts of HP back; however, it is far less effective if your opponent is also low on HP.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Defense EVs ensure that a +2 Life Orb Stone Edge from Kabutops will not be able to OHKO Cofagrigus after Stealth Rock and a round of Leftovers. However, the spreading of the defensive EVs is flexible and can be tailored to your needs; keep in mind, though, that Cofagrigus should always invest fully in HP. A Bold nature raises Cofagrigus's excellent Defense stat even further, and Leftovers provides much needed recovery. If Pain Split is too unreliable for your tastes, Rest can be used as an alternative way to recover lost health as well as remove status effects from Cofagrigus. By replacing Haze with Sleep Talk, Cofagrigus can run the popular RestTalk combination to continuously wall threats. However, the loss of Haze means that Cofagrigus is much easier to set up on.</p>

<p>Although Cofagrigus is extremely bulky physically, it struggles against special sweepers such as Moltres and Lilligant who can annihilate Cofagrigus with powerful STAB special attacks. Specially defensive Pokemon, such as Clefable and Lickilicky, are thus excellent teammates who not only take special attacks for Cofagrigus, but can also support it with Wish and Heal Bell. Cofagrigus covers their single weakness to Fighting-type attacks with its immunity. Being a defensively-inclined Ghost-type, Cofagrigus is a perfect choice for hazard-stacking teams that rely on setting up entry hazards with Pokemon such as Ferroseed and Steelix. Cofagrigus can keep Rapid Spin users at bay with its immunity to Normal-type attacks. As Cofagrigus is a hard counter to Pokemon such as Gallade, Medicham, and Hitmonchan, any Pokemon that detests Fighting-types will appreciate Cofagrigus as a partner.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Hidden Power Fighting
move 4: Rest / Pain Split
item: Leftovers / Chesto Berry
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Forgoing the more offensive option of Nasty Plot, Cofagrigus can opt to use a bulkier EV spread and a boosting move that also raises Cofagrigus's Special Defense to excellent levels. Cofagrigus can use Calm Mind to slowly boost up before dismantling the opposition with just two moves. Common Cofagrigus switch-ins such as Moltres and Spiritomb will find themselves unable to break through Cofagrigus's outstanding mixed bulk after a few Calm Minds. Shadow Ball is Cofagrigus's STAB attack and hits very hard after a couple of Calm Minds, and achieves perfect neutral coverage alongside Hidden Power Fighting which allows Cofagrigus to run a support move in its last slot. Although Rest without Sleep Talk may seem to be an unorthodox choice in such a fast-paced metagame, Cofagrigus can use it well, as after a few boosts, almost nothing will be able to even 3HKO the sturdy coffin. After two Calm Minds, Pokemon such as Modest Expert Belt Magmortar will be unable to get past Rest Cofagrigus with their strongest STAB attacks. BW's sleep mechanics mean that Pain Split is a viable option, but without Rest, Cofagrigus will be extremely vulnerable to the common Toxic.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs and nature are the standard for a bulky Calm Mind sweeper; HP and Defense are maximized to let Cofagrigus take as many hits as possible while setting up. As Calm Mind will be boosting Cofagrigus's Special Defense stat, no investment in Special Defense is required. Leftovers helps Cofagrigus set up by providing consistent recovery; however, a Chesto Berry can be used to let Cofagrigus instantly wake up after using Rest. Cofagrigus also has access to Sleep Talk, which, in conjunction with Rest, Calm Mind, and Shadow Ball, turns Cofagrigus into an extremely bulky mono-attacker.</p>

<p>Like any bulky booster, Cofagrigus fears phazers and Taunt users such as Cryogonal and Mandibuzz, the former being able to Haze Cofagrigus's boosts and the latter being able to take any of Cofagrigus's attacks and either Taunt it, phaze it, or cripple it with Toxic. Other Dark-types such as Spiritomb and Drapion are also troublesome, as they can hit Cofagrigus super effectively. Pokemon such as Aggron can switch in on any of the above threats and decimate your opponent's team with Head Smash. As Cofagrigus often chooses to run Rest, a cleric such as Clefable or Lanturn makes for a great teammate. Both can cure Cofagrigus from status, while the former can also pass Wish to it. They can also take on powerful special attackers such as Life Orb Moltres, who can even break through Cofagrigus after a Calm Mind.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Cofagrigus has numerous options that it can employ on both the offensive and defensive sets. In terms of offensive coverage, Cofagrigus has access to powerful special moves such as Psychic, Energy Ball, and Grass Knot. Although these moves can be used for specific targets, Cofagrigus is better off using the excellent coverage of Shadow Ball and Hidden Power Fighting. Defensively, Cofagrigus has numerous unique options as well. Memento can be used to create an optimal setup opportunity for one of Cofagrigus's teammates at the cost of Cofagrigus's life. Curse also cuts short Cofagrigus's life span to drain the opponent's HP every turn, more often than not forcing them to switch. As Cofagrigus's main recovery move depends on your opponent's HP, Cofagrigus can use the arguably more reliable RestTalk combination to fully heal; if you decide to use this method of healing, a Heal Bell or Aromatherapy user is a recommended teammate.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mandibuzz is a hard counter to Cofagrigus; it can stop its attempts to heal, boost, or status Manidibuzz with Taunt while wearing Cofagrigus down with Toxic. If Cofagrigus has boosted numerous times, Mandibuzz can still win by phazing out Cofagrigus with Whirlwind. Cofagrigus also fears Spiritomb, as the coffin is weak to both of Spiritomb's STAB attacks and cannot hit it super effectively. Although physical variants of Spiritomb fear Will-O-Wisp, it can hit Cofagrigus hard with Pursuit, Sucker Punch, and Shadow Sneak or Trick Cofagrigus a Choice Band, rendering Cofagrigus almost useless. Drapion also checks Cofagrigus with its powerful Dark-type STAB attacks and resistance to Shadow Ball. Although Will-O-Wisp will severely cut Drapion's usefulness, specially defensive variants can Whirlwind Cofagrigus away; furthermore, Drapion can use Taunt to prevent Cofagrigus from setting up or using Will-O-Wisp. Specially defensive Normal-types such as Lickilicky can easily sponge even super effective Hidden Power Fightings and phaze Cofagrigus out with Dragon Tail. However, if Cofagrigus is the last Pokemon on the opponent's team and runs Rest, then these special walls will be unable to defeat Cofagrigus. Disruptive moves such as Encore and Trick also hinder Cofagrigus. Priority Encore users such as Whimsicott and Liepard can bypass Trick Room and lock it in to either Trick Room or Nasty Plot. Tricking Cofagrigus a Choice item, especially a Choice Scarf, also hinders Cofagrigus as it relies on boosting and coverage to do damage. Powerful special attackers such as Magmortar and Moltres also do well against Cofagrigus, as they are immune to Will-O-Wisp and can take a Shadow Ball before doing significant damage with Fire Blast. Other ways to render Cofagrigus useless include SubDisable Haunter and Drifblim who can both Disable Shadow Ball and proceed to set up on Cofagrigus. Braviary is immune to Shadow Ball and has enough bulk to take a neutral Hidden Power Fighting before retaliating with Brave Bird, making it a decent check as well. Because Cofagrigus has no reliable recovery move, continuous pressure from hard hitters such as Choice Band Entei and Aggron will quickly send Cofagrigus back to its grave.</p>