[Overview]

<p>Cradily has good defensive stats, a good supporting movepool, and two decent abilities in Storm Drain and Suction Cups. Recover helps it survive powerful assaults, and its decent typing helps it take on the majority of special attackers. Although it can take on special attackers with relative ease, its weaknesses to common Fighting- and Ice-type attacks make it difficult to use. Another downfall is the lack of permanent sandstorm inducers in the tier, making Cradily miss out on the Special Defense boost that sandstorm provides. Cradily's Speed is nothing short of terrible, but thanks to its reliable recovery and access to Curse, this is the least of the barnacle's problems. All in all, Cradily is an excellent supporter for your team, and it shouldn't be overlooked.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Stealth Rock 
move 2: Toxic / Energy Ball
move 3: Recover
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Rock
item: Leftovers
ability: Storm Drain
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its great defensive stats, small number of weaknesses, and access to Recover, Cradily is an ideal team supporter. Storm Drain gives Cradily an easy time when faced with Water-types, such as Feraligatr, and its high defenses make it very difficult to KO. The idea is to set up Stealth Rock, cripple bulkier opponents with Toxic, and proceed to stall with Recover. Energy Ball can be used to hit opposing Water-types super effectively, and the STAB boost helps secure KOs against the likes of Rhydon and Quagsire. Hidden Power Fire is preferred to hit Steel- and Grass-types—especially Ferroseed—while Hidden Power Rock gains a STAB boost and hits Moltres super effectively.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum HP and Defense investment turn Cradily into an unstoppable tank. Defense EVs are preferred over Special Defense as Cradily can already take on the majority of special attackers, and the added cushion against physical attacks is extremely helpful. With an immunity to Water-type moves, a resistance to Electric-type moves, and neutral damage from Fire- and Grass-type attacks, most opponents will be hard-pressed to take it out. You may choose to run Special Defense EVs along with Curse, but that isn't recommended. Alternatively, an Impish nature can be used with Rock Slide, Earthquake, and Seed Bomb, turning Cradily into a physically oriented tank.</p>

<p>Pokemon that can switch into Cradily's weaknesses are essential in keeping it alive. Qwilfish can switch into Ice- and Steel-type moves and set up entry hazards, while Moltres can switch into Fighting- and Bug-type moves and roast opposing Ice-types with its STAB Fire-type moves. A cleric or status absorber is helpful too; Lanturn can switch into Ice-type moves and support Cradily with Heal Bell, while Clefable has access to a variety of other support options, such as Encore, Thunder Wave, and Wish. RestTalk Spiritomb is a viable alternative, and its ability to switch into Fighting-types is always welcomed.</p>

[SET]
name: Mono-Attacker
move 1: Curse
move 2: Rest
move 3: Sleep Talk
move 4: Rock Slide / Seed Bomb
item: Leftovers
ability: Suction Cups
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set attempts to create a monstrous wall by utilizing Curse, Rest, and Sleep Talk. The idea is to set up on a weak or resisted attack, Rest off the damage, and hit the opponent with boosted STAB attacks. Rest and Sleep Talk turn Cradily into an excellent status absorber and late-game tank, making it very difficult for the opponent to KO Cradily. Rock Slide and Seed Bomb are reliable STAB options; Rock Slide leaves Cradily walled by Steel- and bulky Water-types, while Seed Bomb leaves it walled against Fire- and Flying-types. What sets Cradily apart from other Curse users is Suction Cups; thanks to Suction Cups, Cradily can boost its stats without fear of being phazed. If Cradily manages to set up, the only way to stop it is through Haze or multiple critical hits.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are self-explanatory; maximum HP and Special Defense allow Cradily to sponge special attacks while it sets up with Curse. Stone Edge or Earthquake can be used in the last slot; however, Stone Edge has low PP, and Earthquake leaves Cradily utterly walled by Flying-types and Pokemon with the Levitate ability. If you prefer a more offensive set, a coverage move can replace Sleep Talk and Cradily can hold a Chesto Berry. In this case, Stone Edge and Earthquake are the preferred attacking moves as they provide great coverage.</p>

<p>Toxic Spikes cripple bulky opponents that resist or take little damage from Cradily's attacking move. Qwilfish can set up Toxic Spikes, and its ability, Intimidate, helps soften physical attacks. Pokemon that can switch into Cradily's weaknesses are helpful too. Lanturn can switch into Ice- and Steel-type moves, Spiritomb can switch into Fighting-type moves, and Moltres can switch into Bug-, Steel-, and Fighting-type moves. Finally, a cleric, such as Clefable, can be used to wake up a sleeping Cradily.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Stone Edge / Seed Bomb
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Recover
item: Leftovers
ability: Storm Drain
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set utilizes Cradily's base 81 Attack, good defenses, and access to Swords Dance to deal massive damage to the opponent. Thanks to its enormous bulk, Cradily has no difficulty in setting up multiple boosts. After a Swords Dance, Cradily has enough power to crush the majority of Pokemon in RU. Storm Drain gives Cradily an immunity to Water-type moves, giving it an easy time setting up against Pokemon such as Choice Band Feraligatr and Alomomola. Stone Edge and Seed Bomb provide reliable STAB; Seed Bomb hits bulky Water-types super effectively, and Stone Edge deals with pesky Flying-types that are immune to Earthquake. Earthquake provides coverage against Steel-types, and Recover helps Cradily set up more easily.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Cradily's EVs capitalize on its decent bulk and Attack—its Speed is so poor it's not worth investing in. Storm Drain is the chosen ability as it gives Cradily an immunity to Water-type moves; furthermore, it gives you a reason to use Cradily over Torterra or Sceptile. Suction Cups can be used if you're afraid of being phazed, but the extra Water-type immunity is preferred. Stockpile can be used over Earthquake if you want to raise Cradily's defenses, but the loss of coverage makes this a poor choice. Rock Slide can be used over Stone Edge for its higher accuracy, whilst Toxic can be used over Earthquake to cripple bulkier Pokemon, such as Uxie. This set can also function as a Baton Pass receiver; thanks to Suction Cups and its access to Recover, Cradily is an absolute monster after a few boosts, and it's capable of destroying whole teams.</p>

<p>Support from entry hazards can increase Cradily's sweeping potential, and helps it score easier KOs. Crustle can set up Spikes and Stealth Rock, Scolipede can set up Toxic Spikes, and Uxie can set up Stealth Rock. Due to its low Speed, Pokemon that can switch into Cradily's weaknesses are appreciated. Moltres can switch into Bug- and Fighting-type moves, whilst Klinklang can switch into Ice-type moves and pose an offensive threat with its STAB Gear Grind. A cleric can be used to cure any nasty status. Lanturn can support Cradily with Heal Bell, and RestTalk Pokemon, such as Spiritomb, can absorb status.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Cradily has an obscure movepool for a plant, and a few more options are available. Gastro Acid will screw with any Natural Cure or Pure Power Pokemon, but it's largely pointless. Confuse Ray can score additional turns to set up, but it's nothing more than a gimmick. Substitute can be used alongside Toxic and Recover to form a stalling set, but Cradily's low Speed makes it difficult to set up. A Choice Band can raise its attack, but locking Cradily into a single move gives the opponent the opportunity to set up. Mirror Coat is a nasty surprise for special attackers; just make sure your prediction is top notch. Cradily can support its teammates with Sunny Day and hit the opponent with SolarBeam, but there are much better things it could be doing with its time. Finally, Cradily has access to Rock Polish to raise its Speed, but even after a boost it won't be outrunning much.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fighting-types take little damage from Rock-type moves, making Hitmonlee and Hitmonchan good counters. Fighting-type moves are generally a good way to defeat Cradily, and repeated hits will take its toll on Cradily's health. Lilligant and Tangrowth can switch into Earthquake and Seed Bomb and put Cradily to sleep; however, beware of Hidden Power Fire. Weezing can take anything Cradily can throw at it with a combination of Haze, Will-O-Wisp, and Pain Split. A vague definition of a Cradily counter is anything with good Defense; Cradily doesn't have the power to break through defensive behemoths, such as Steelix, and is easily defeated. Moltres can switch into Cradily's Earthquake and Seed Bomb and threaten it with powerful STAB moves. Aggron can take on sets that lack Earthquake, while Altaria can set up against sets without Stone Edge. Cradily relies on setup moves, making Taunt and Haze two of its biggest enemies. Tricking it a Choice item is another way to effectively cripple Cradily. Cradily isn't difficult to beat, just stop it from setting up.</p>