[Overview]

<p>The sound of Crawdaunt snapping its claws is enough to leave most of the tier crying for mercy. Its powerful, Adaptability-boosted STAB moves have almost unresisted coverage in RU, and hit the majority of physical walls for super effective damage. Crawdaunt can comfortably 2HKO defensive titans such as Slowking, Uxie, and even Steelix! Crawdaunt's Speed is the only thing holding it back from sweeping, but this can easily be remedied with the use of Dragon Dance. With a couple of Attack and Speed boosts under its belt, Crawdaunt can outspeed and OHKO almost everything in the tier. Unfortunately, along with its low Speed, Crawdaunt has rather poor defenses as well, which means that it will likely fall to faster opponents. Crawdaunt's small movepool also makes it extremely predictable. However, it would be foolish to ever dismiss Crawdaunt as a threat; its sky-high Attack stat, powerful STAB combination, and access to Dragon Dance are often all it needs to slice through whole teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Waterfall
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Substitute / Superpower
item: Leftovers / Life Orb / Lum Berry
ability: Adaptability
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While most of the game's most powerful Dragon Dance sweepers are locked away in higher tiers, Crawdaunt can use this excellent boosting move to wreak havoc in RU. Dragon Dance patches up Crawdaunt's normally poor Speed while skyrocketing its excellent Attack stat to jaw-dropping levels. For example, +1 Waterfall OHKOes even Steelix after Stealth Rock. After two Dragon Dance boosts, only the fastest Choice Scarf users and the strongest priority attackers will be able to halt Crawdaunt's rampage. Waterfall and Crunch are Crawdaunt's primary attacks, as both are boosted by STAB and Adaptability, and hit the majority of RU of at least neutral damage. Crawdaunt has little trouble plowing through dedicated physical walls such as Slowking and Steelix with its STAB attacks.</p>

<p>Substitute is the main option in the last slot; it protects Crawdaunt from status, and lets it comfortably set up on defensive Pokemon such as Ferroseed that lack a Grass-type move. It also shields Crawdaunt from revenge killers and priority users hoping to switch in while Crawdaunt is exposed. Superpower is a viable alternative, as it eliminates one of Crawdaunt's biggest counters, Ferroseed. However, if you choose to run Substitute, then only the rare Bullet Seed or Seed Bomb Ferroseed will be able to stop Crawdaunt from boosting to +6, which makes Superpower largely redundant. Nonetheless, Superpower does give Crawdaunt a stronger hit on Poliwrath, and also takes down Clefable even without any boosts.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Speed investment and a Jolly nature let Crawdaunt beat all base 105 Speed Pokemon after a single Dragon Dance, while maximum Attack investment gives it a lot of power. The choice of item is more flexible: Leftovers is best used in conjunction with Substitute to supplement the HP lost from setting up, while Life Orb is more suitable for sets that choose to run Superpower. Notably, the Life Orb boost guarantees the OHKO on Feraligatr and offensive Drapion after a Dragon Dance. Lum Berry is the final option to let Crawdaunt set up on status moves such as the common Will-O-Wisp and Thunder Wave. Instead of Waterfall, Crawdaunt can choose to run Crabhammer, which is slightly stronger and has a high critical hit ratio. Unfortunately, its accuracy is subpar, and a miss could easily spell doom for the rather frail Crawdaunt.</p>

<p>Although Crawdaunt is a mighty offensive force, it has trouble taking strong attacks. Ferroseed is a great partner for Crawdaunt as it can soak up Electric- and Grass-type attacks for Crawdaunt, and also set up entry hazards to aid Crawdaunt's sweep. Furthermore, Ferroseed can paralyze faster opponents with Thunder Wave to make Crawdaunt's sweep even easier. Rotom is another great teammate that can take the Fighting- and Bug-type moves that Crawdaunt hates, and spread around Will-O-Wisp, which makes it easier for Crawdaunt to set up.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Crunch
move 3: Superpower
move 4: Toxic
item: Choice Band
ability: Adaptability
nature: Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Crawdaunt's excellent Attack stat, access to Adaptability, and almost unresisted two-move coverage makes a Choice Band set a terrific option for it. Waterfall, one of Crawdaunt's two STAB attacks, has excellent coverage in the tier, and hits Pokemon such as Steelix and Moltres for super effective damage. With Waterfall and Crunch alone, Crawdaunt can shred through some of the bulkiest walls in the tier, while anything frail is likely to be completely crushed and mutilated. In fact, it has such great power that it can 2HKO frailer Pokemon that resist it, such as Sceptile and Feraligatr. Crunch hits just as hard as Waterfall and scores super effective hits on Uxie and Dusknoir, some of the bulkiest physical walls in the tier. Superpower rounds out Crawdaunt's impeccable coverage by hitting Ferroseed super effectively and hitting Poliwrath for at least neutral damage. However, it should only be used against Ferroseed, Poliwrath, and bulkier Normal-types such as Clefable, as Waterfall and Crunch are generally more powerful. Because Crawdaunt has impeccable coverage in only three moves, it can use Toxic in the last slot to deal with the few bulky walls that it cannot get past, such as Tangrowth and Alomomola. Toxic is also the only way Crawdaunt can effectively damage Poliwrath although the latter can still defeat Crawdaunt if it runs Rest.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Choice Band makes this set, as it makes Crawdaunt's attacks almost impossible to wall. While it does have the unfortunate side effect of locking Crawdaunt into only one move, Crawdaunt can normally get away with being Choice-locked as its moves are so powerful that even Pokemon that resist them will be left hurting. The standard EV spread for a physical attacker is used, as investing in Crawdaunt's pitiful defenses would be a waste. An Adamant nature is preferred as Crawdaunt should only need to outspeed walls, and it need the extra power to secure certain KOs, such as the guaranteed 2HKO on Alomomola and Leafeon after Stealth Rock. 252 Speed EVs let Crawdaunt outspeed and 2HKO uninvested Magneton, Mandibuzz, and Aggron. Crabhammer raises Crawdaunt's damage output further, but its poor accuracy is often not worth it as Crawdaunt has enough power already, and common Crawdaunt counters, such as Tangrowth, resist Water-type attacks anyway. Knock Off can replace Toxic as Crawdaunt's utility move of choice; it reduces prediction and can cripple walls dependent on Leftovers or Eviolite. Additionally, Knock Off can OHKO Kadabra and Jynx, and 2HKO Rotom and Cryogonal.</p>

<p>Ferroseed is a great partner for Crawdaunt, as it can set up entry hazards; three layers of Spikes help Crawdaunt obtain 2HKOs on Tangrowth and Poliwrath. Ferroseed can also take Grass- and Electric-type attacks that plague Crawdaunt, as well as provide Thunder Wave and Leech Seed support. Pokemon that struggle to break through common physical walls, such as Klinklang and Scyther, appreciate Crawdaunt's help; Crawdaunt can weaken or remove walls such as Steelix to pave the way for a sweep.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Surf
move 2: Dark Pulse
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Superpower / Hidden Power Grass
item: Life Orb
ability: Adaptability
nature: Rash / Modest
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set allows Crawdaunt to turn the tables on its common counters, employing the sheer power of its STAB moves along with Ice Beam to gain sterling super effective coverage on RU's premier walls. Crawdaunt's oft-overlooked base 90 Special Attack provides overwhelming strength combined with a Life Orb, boosting nature, and its wonderful ability, Adaptability. Surf OHKOes Quagsire with a small amount of prior damage, while Dark Pulse is a guaranteed OHKO on Qwilfish after Stealth Rock and a comfortable 2HKO on Alomomola. It is also Crawdaunt's weapon against bulky Psychic-types such as Uxie. Ice Beam is used to simply OHKO Tangrowth and 2HKO Amoonguss and physically defensive Roselia.</p>

<p>There are two main options for the last slot, both of which give this set a particular niche. Superpower is preferred for its chance to 2HKO Ferroseed and annihilate dedicated special walls such as Cryogonal and Clefable. Hidden Power Grass can be used to astonish your opponent by blowing past Crawdaunt's hardest counter, Poliwrath, in a mere two hits. It also guarantees the OHKO on Quagsire, although bear in mind that due to Adaptability, Dark Pulse and Surf are stronger than Hidden Power Grass unless the opponent is 4x weak to it. Crawdaunt's Speed is still abysmal though, so it's not going to sweep any time soon. Crawdaunt's defenses haven't gotten any better either, but as this set is focused on breaking down dedicated physical walls, neither flaw is a major issue for Crawdaunt.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Life Orb and a positive Special Attack nature are necessary for this set to function, so a simple EV spread is used to allow Crawdaunt to reach its full offensive potential while Speed tying with Bouffalant, Golurk, and Omastar. A Modest nature should be used if using Hidden Power Grass, but otherwise, Rash is preferred to keep Superpower's damage output high. Substitute is another option in the final slot in order to take advantage of the switches this set forces, but sacrifices coverage. Crunch is an option to better deal with Lanturn, but is inferior to Superpower otherwise. Hidden Power Fire is another potential choice to slaughter unsuspecting Ferroseed and Escavalier in one blow with a little prior damage, but serves no other purpose and forces an imperfect Speed IV. Speaking of which, Dragon Dance is viable to boost Crawdaunt's Speed, but such a set is outclassed by physical variants. Powerful physical attackers that enjoy weakened or outright fainted physical walls and bulky Water-types are particularly good partners for this set; Entei, Kabutops, Emboar, and Feraligatr are prime examples of such. As this set has no means to boost Speed, paralysis support from teammates such as Uxie and Amoonguss is greatly appreciated. Both also match up well against Poliwrath, while Ferroseed is another reliable user of Thunder Wave. All three share good defensive synergy with Crawdaunt and provide further utility such as absorbing Toxic Spikes or laying down entry hazards to aid Crawdaunt's rampage.</p>

<p>Crawdaunt without Hidden Power Grass is still outright walled by Poliwrath as well as unable to defeat faster opponents using Electric, Grass, Fighting, or Bug attacks. This means a reliable teammate to deal with these threats such as Roselia or Amoonguss is recommended. Steelix is another teammate to deal with everything Crawdaunt fears bar Fighting- and Grass-types packing Hidden Power Fire. Emboar also has excellent defensive synergy with Crawdaunt as well as a potent offensive symbiosis, being able to tank Bug- and Grass-type attacks aimed at Crawdaunt. Finally, Golurk has no fear of the Bug, Fighting, and Electric moves that Crawdaunt hates, and both Emboar and Golurk highly appreciate the gaps this particular Crawdaunt opens up in the opposing team by defeating Alomomola and Tangrowth.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Outside of the listed moves, Crawdaunt's movepool is extremely barren and unappealing. Swords Dance is an alternative boosting move that lets Crawdaunt OHKO almost everything in the tier. However, it is mostly outclassed by Dragon Dance, as it does not boost Crawdaunt's pitiful Speed, and the extra Attack boost is normally not required for Crawdaunt to sweep. Crawdaunt's Special Attack stat is decent, so it can use Ice Beam to surprise Tangrowth. However, Crunch has a chance to 2HKO and has much better coverage across the tier. Crawdaunt can opt to use a Choice Scarf to become a potent revenge killer and late-game sweeper, but it is still relatively slow; even with the Choice Scarf boost, Crawdaunt is outsped by unboosted Galvantula and Sceptile.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best Pokemon that can completely counter Crawdaunt is Poliwrath. More specifically, the RestTalk set can shrug off status and avoid being worn down. It can then proceed to Circle Throw Crawdaunt away, preventing Crawdaunt from accumulating too many boosts. Defensive variants of Tangrowth and Alomomola can also take on Crawdaunt; however, Alomomola can do little back to Crawdaunt if the latter has Substitute. The only move that Tangrowth fears is the rare Ice Beam. Ferroseed can comfortably take Crawdaunt's STAB attacks, but it must be wary of a potential Superpower. It can even choose to run Seed Bomb or Bullet Seed to avoid letting Substitute Crawdaunt set up on it. Qwilfish is in a similar boat; while it can wall Crawdaunt with a combination of Intimidate and its typing, it can do little back and will eventually fall as it has no reliable recovery. However, in that time, it can set up numerous layers of Spikes and Haze away any boosts Crawdaunt hopes to accrue.</p>

<p>Due to the sheer power of Crawdaunt's attacks, revenge killing it is often an easier task than walling it is. Even after a Dragon Dance, Crawdaunt isn't very fast and can be outsped by most Choice Scarf users and fast sweepers. Choice Scarf variants of Galvantula, Rotom, and Manectric can all outspeed even +2 Crawdaunt and fry it with their STAB Electric-type attacks.</p>