[Overview]

<p>In a tier with multiple hazard setters and few Rapid Spin users, Cryogonal's ability to provide Rapid Spin support is highly appreciated. Cryogonal's stat distribution and ability to heal quickly with Recover allow it to keep entry hazards off the field throughout the match. Levitate gives Cryogonal an immunity to Spikes and Toxic Spikes, but sadly its weakness to Stealth Rock remains. A pitiful base 30 Defense limits Cryogonal's flexibility, as it is not able take full advantage of its high Special Defense; it must run a high amount of Defense EVs in order to have less trouble against Pursuit users and other physical attackers, mainly one of the only Ghost-types that can spinblock against Cryogonal: Spiritomb. In order to prevent itself from being worn down, Cryogonal can use dual screens, Haze, or use an offensive set in order to knock out the opponent before Cryogonal goes down itself. Cryogonal usually finds its place on a defensive team, though, which comes as no surprise as there is no doubt that it is the best bulky Rapid Spin user in the tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Recover
move 4: Haze / Toxic / Reflect
item: Leftovers
nature: Calm 
evs: 248 HP / 168 Def / 92 SpD
ivs: 0 Atk

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is dedicated to Cryogonal's rare ability to Rapid Spin. Its good Speed and Special Attack allow it to outspeed and wear down opposing Ghost-types, such as Spiritomb and Misdreavus, while it is still bulky enough to take on Rotom. Recover provides Cryogonal with longevity, allowing it to switch in multiple times and spin away entry hazards. Quick recovery is also necessary when dealing with offensive Spiritomb and Escavalier, as their Pursuits will leave Cryogonal weakened, but not completely useless if it gets the chance to use Recover. The last moveslot is generally based on your team's needs. Haze is useful for putting a stop to setup sweepers like Lilligant, Sigilyph, and Jynx; it can also force a Pokemon such as Swords Dance Kabutops to KO Cryogonal instead of getting boosts so a teammate can come in freely on a much less powerful Kabutops. Toxic is useful in that it can wear down Pokemon that might wall or set up on Cryogonal, including Slowking, Uxie, and Entei. Finally, Reflect is extremely useful when dealing with physical attackers. Using it to predict when a physical attacker, such as Escavalier, will switch in can save Cryogonal's—or even a teammate's—life.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Cryogonal's EV spread is very useful and quite necessary if it wants to Rapid Spin with ease. 248 HP EVs allow it to take less damage from Stealth Rock upon each switch in. The Defense EVs let Cryogonal survive a Choice Band Spiritomb's Sucker Punch, as well as not be 2HKOed by the same Spiritomb's Shadow Sneak or Pursuit; this also applies to Escavalier's Pursuit. 0 Attack IVs are used in order to minimize the damage that Cryogonal takes from Spiritomb's Foul Play. Bumping the Speed EVs up to 56 is an option, as it allows Cryogonal to outspeed neutral nature base 80 Speed Pokemon such as Gallade. The remaining EVs are placed into Special Defense to absorb hits from the likes of Rotom, Tangrowth, and other special attackers. Cryogonal is not limited to this EV spread, though. If you are not concerned about Spiritomb and other Pursuit trappers, a spread of 248 HP / 136 SpD / 124 Spe allows Cryogonal to outspeed max Speed Smeargle and maintain a good amount of Special Defense. Cryogonal's EV spread can easily be manipulated to fit its team's needs.</p>

<p>Cryogonal can also use a Hidden Power of choice in the last slot. Hidden Power Fire 2HKOes Escavalier and damages other Steel-types such as Steelix and Klinklang. Hidden Power Ground also hits Steel-types, particularly Aggron, as well as Fire-types like Entei and Typhlosion. Teammates that can deal with these types of Pokemon are much appreciated. Poliwrath and Slowking have excellent synergy with Cryogonal, and form a solid defensive core. Because Cryogonal has a low Defense stat, Psyshock users such as Sigilyph and Mesprit threaten it; thus, Spiritomb or Drapion are good teammates. Partners that can take out hazard users are also welcomed, so Cryogonal can spin just once and not have to worry about hazards for the rest of the game. Spiritomb and Escavalier come to mind, as they can trap Uxie and Roselia. Of course, Pokemon that are weak to entry hazards love Cryogonal's support, so pairing it with something like Moltres is always helpful.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Ice Beam
move 2: Rapid Spin
move 3: Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Recover
item: Icicle Plate
nature: Timid 
evs: 64 HP / 252 SpA / 192 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Cryogonal boasts a high base 105 Speed, allowing it to outspeed a majority of the unboosted tier. Its Special Attack isn't too shabby either, as Cryogonal can hit hard with a STAB Ice Beam, even 2HKOing offensive Spiritomb with the help of its Icicle Plate. As this Cryogonal will most likely be used on an offensive team, a fast Rapid Spin is great for maintaining momentum and keeping your sweepers healthy. Hidden Power Fire is recommended in order to eliminate Steel-types, especially Escavalier. However, Cryogonal must use a Life Orb in order to have a chance to OHKO Escavalier. This is risky, though, as Cryogonal will most likely have trouble dealing with the residual damage. For this reason, Recover is the number one choice for the last slot, curing damage and allowing Cryogonal to continue its job.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Icicle Plate boosts the power of Cryogonal's most used move, and as stated above, prevents it from taking any residual damage through Life Orb. The Speed EVs allow Cryogonal to outspeed max Speed Timid Sigilyph and everything below, which is extremely useful in dealing with other threats such as Drapion and Moltres; note that 252 Speed EVs can be used in order to Speed tie with Scyther and non-Choice Scarf Manectric. 64 HP EVs bring Cryogonal's HP to a number indivisible by 4, allowing it to minimize Stealth Rock damage, while Special Attack is maximized. A Modest nature can be used for more power, but Cryogonal will be slower than Drapion and Sigilyph which is very unfavorable. Hidden Power Ground can be used instead of Hidden Power Fire, as it still maintains super effective damage on Steel-types, but also hits Fire-types, Kabutops, Qwilfish, and Lanturn.</p>

<p>Offensive Cryogonal makes for a solid pivot on offensive teams, as these types of teams greatly appreciate the removal of entry hazards. As a bonus, Cryogonal can keep the offensive pressure by hitting reasonably hard. Moltres and Entei appreciate this support the most, but they would normally be paired with Rapid Spin Kabutops due to the superior synergy; however, Cryogonal comes with the benefit of reliable recovery and additional bulk, allowing it to compete with Kabutops. Note that this set is much less bulky than the Rapid Spin set, and should be played to its strengths. Thus, teammates that can set up on the offensive switch-ins that plague Cryogonal can be very beneficial to the team. Pokemon that can set up on Spiritomb, such as Absol, or other threats like Feraligatr, such as Sceptile and Lilligant, make for great partners.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A dual screens set with Light Clay is a usable option, as Cryogonal can set up Reflect and Light Screen quickly and consistently thanks to its high Speed and access to Recover, respectively; this set pairs well with setup sweepers. Rain Dance can be used to support rain teams, and Cryogonal has the advantage of stopping opposing Ludicolo and Jynx, which can both take advantage of the weather condition. Frost Breath, though quite situational, is a good option to obtain critical hits on opposing Calm Mind users such as Sigilyph and Spiritomb. However, Haze will almost always be the superior choice. Among the other moves Cryogonal has, it can use Acid Armor to raise its Defense, though a physically defensive partner is much more convenient. Finally, if you're a gimmicky player, a physical set with Poison Jab, Night Slash, Ice Shard, and Explosion will be for you.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As for Pokemon that can block Rapid Spin, Spiritomb is the best option, even though it gets worn down easily; Tricking a Choice Band onto Cryogonal, or using a combination of BlackGlasses and Return can quickly limit Cryogonal's effectiveness. Physical attackers are no doubt the most threatening Pokemon to Cryogonal, as they will take advantage of its miserable Defense. Durant, Escavalier, Aggron, and Klinklang all have nothing to fear besides the rare Hidden Power, and can OHKO with a STAB move. Fire-types in general are a major threat, as Pokemon like Entei and Typhlosion resist Ice Beam and Hidden Power Fire and can blow past Cryogonal's defenses with sheer power. Similarly, those that resist Ice Beam, such as Kabutops, Crawdaunt, and Feraligatr, can set up on Cryogonal or simply KO it. Qwilfish in particular is an effective counter, as it can threaten Cryogonal out with a STAB Waterfall and proceed to set up Spikes. Steelix and Rhydon are other threatening Pokemon that will usually be able to keep their entry hazards up against Cryogonal. Fighting-types such as Gallade, Hariyama, and Primeape leave Cryogonal completely defenseless, and the former two also boast good bulk (and Thick Fat in the case of Hariyama). Psyshock users, specifically Slowking and Uxie, can also capitalize on Cryogonal's low Defense and set up all over it. Finally, even with some Defense investment, Pursuit users such as the aforementioned Spiritomb and Escavalier can trap and do a number on Cryogonal.</p>