[Overview]

<p>Ditto, formerly nothing but the whore of the Pokemon world, has finally risen to some degree of usefulness. While previously Ditto's only real use was breeding to obtain Pokemon with perfect IVs, it has received a tremendous boon in its new ability, Imposter. Imposter allows Ditto to instantly Transform into the Pokemon it is facing upon switching in, perfectly copying said Pokemon's moves and stat boosts, along with every stat other than HP. This makes Ditto a decent revenge killer in the tier, with its ability to check most boosted Pokemon with ease by copying the opponent's boosts and turning sweeps completely around. However, Ditto cannot be played recklessly due to retaining its poor HP stat upon transformation, and is forced to run a Choice Scarf in order to guarantee that it outspeeds the Pokemon it transforms into. Ditto is also extremely predictable as well as borderline useless against most defensively oriented teams that lack setup sweepers for Ditto to copy. Finally, Ditto suffers from RU's relative lack in setup sweepers, and there are also a few that sweepers that are incapable of doing very much damage against themselves or often utilize a Substitute, which blocks Imposter, such as Klinklang. Regardless, it is a completely viable Pokemon that is nearly unparalleled in its ability to fix up holes on teams suffering against some of RU's powerful boosting sweepers.</p>

[SET]
name: Ditto That
move 1: Transform
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Imposter
nature: Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def
ivs: 30 Atk / 30 Def / 30 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Ditto is the epitome of a revenge killer, outspeeding literally everything that it switches in on while copying any offensive and defensive boosts that they've accumulated while in play. Ditto has the nifty advantage of forcing the opponent to play very carefully with all of their boosting sweepers, such as Omastar, Durant, and Fraxure, lest they risk getting swept in return when Ditto switches in to copy the boosts. However, Calm Mind, Quiver Dance, and Bulk Up users are not optimal targets for Ditto unless they are already heavily weakened, as Ditto's low base HP will allow the Pokemon it is copying to defeat it before it can break through. Imposter also allows Ditto to serve as a perfect scout, completely revealing the movesets of the opponent's Pokemon simply by switching in. Ditto must be careful when attempting this, however, because it cannot switch into anything but weak resisted hits due to its incredibly low base HP. Imposter copies abilities as well as moves and stats, which can let Ditto recover off some HP by pivoting in and out against a Pokemon with Regenerator. Similarly, status can be healed by switching Ditto in and out against a Pokemon with Natural Cure. Finally, Ditto even has some small utility against teams that are more defensively minded, as it can switch in against a wall that has a crippling status move such as Toxic or copy an entry hazard, Heal Bell, or Aromatherapy.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The only EVs that are significant for Ditto are its HP EVs, as HP is the only stat that Ditto retains after it transforms. The remaining EVs are completely insignificant barring Imposter failing, due to either two Ditto double switching into each other or Ditto switching in against a Pokemon that already has a Substitute up. As the Ditto user should always switch out either of those situations, Ditto's non-HP EVs are irrelevant. Ditto's IVs should be customized depending on what it wants to counter the most effectively; the given IVs give Ditto Hidden Power Fire, which hits the majority of the notable Hidden Power users in RU, such as Lilligant, Rotom-C, Sceptile, and Accelgor. Hidden Power Grass is a somewhat usable option, hitting Omastar and Gorebyss, but Gorebyss isn't really common enough to warrant its use, and Surf OHKOes Omastar if Ditto switches in after a Shell Smash. Hidden Power Rock is the main other option for Ditto's Hidden Power, notably scoring hits on most Fire-types, such as the powerful Moltres, Magmortar, and Typhlosion.</p>

<p>Ditto has a very wide range of possible teammates; due to its sole use as a revenge killer, it fits well on both offensive and defensive teams, helping against the majority of offensive Pokemon in the tier. There are, however, a few Pokemon that immediately stick out as pairing well with Ditto, most notably Rapid Spin users. Cryogonal and Kabutops, for example, are very helpful to prevent Ditto from taking too much damage from entry hazards as it switches in and out over the course of a match. Ditto needs all the HP it can get in order to avoid being picked off by the many common priority move users in the tier such as Spiritomb, Entei, and Feraligatr. However, Ditto fits in very well without much support on most teams that simply need a revenge killer, as it effectively checks nearly every setup sweeper in RU.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>To put it bluntly, Ditto has basically no other options. The only effective way to use it is as a revenge killer with a Choice Scarf, with the only possible variations being in the type of Hidden Power it uses. As mentioned, Hidden Power Fire, achieved with the IVs 30 Atk / 30 Def / 30 Spe, is the most useful, although Hidden Power Rock with the IVs of 30 Def / 30 SpD / 30 Spe is also effective. Other viable, though by no means as effective, options include Hidden Power Grass, with IVs of 30 Atk / 30 SpA, and Hidden Power Ground, with IVs of 30 SpA / 30 SpD. Aside from Hidden Power types, Ditto is completely without other usable choices.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Technically, Ditto has no true counter due to the fact that it is a different Pokemon every time it switches in, but it has a few very easily exploitable flaws. Keeping its minuscule base HP stat after transforming is Ditto's most notable weak point, as it means that Ditto is easily beaten by most users of priority moves, which can be a hindrance to any Ditto attempting to sweep the opponent after copying one of their offensive Pokemon's boosts. Similarly, Ditto is also very Pursuit weak if it copies a frail Pokemon, as its low base HP causes it be easily demolished by some of the high-powered Pursuit users in RU. The fact that Ditto maintains its typing and ability until after it switches in is another minor issue for Ditto, as it is hit by Spikes, Stealth Rock, and Toxic Spikes upon switching in, easily wearing it down over time as it switches in and out to check sweepers.</p>

<p>Ditto is naturally incredibly predictable, as it is copying the exact moveset and ability of the Pokemon that it switches in against. This can make Ditto very easy to counter, as the player facing Ditto will know its exact moveset and stats. However, the best way of handling Ditto in many situations is simply to play cautiously until it is gone. If Ditto is still alive, simply wait to set up offensive Pokemon such as Hone Claws Durant until after it has fainted. A little bit of patience will help you more against Ditto than any amount of preparation.</p>