[Overview]

<p>Dragonair boasts an incredible typing for play in the RU tier, which, when combined with its great Eviolite-boosted defenses, amazing abilities, and solid movepool, makes it a great candidate for a spot on offensive balanced and semistall teams. Marvel Scale and Shed Skin are what make Dragonair so potent, as they both immensely aid in setting up. Dragonair's niche in RU is as a bulky Dragon Dance sweeper; straight offensive sets are largely outclassed by Druddigon, which features amazing power without setup, and Fraxure, which is only marginally slower but much more powerful after a single boost. Dragonair's bulky Dragon Dance set is amazing though, with its only major weakness coming from its tendency to get ruined by critical hits. If you're looking for a fun Pokemon to use and can provide Magneton support to remove Steel-types, Dragonair should not disappoint.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Outrage
move 3: Rest
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Eviolite
ability: Marvel Scale
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Eviolite, Dragonair is a very bulky and dangerous setup sweeper that can come in either mid-game to wallbreak or late-game to sweep the opponent. Dragonair easily sets up on weak defensive Pokemon and Pokemon often found in Fire / Water / Grass cores, even if they have Ice Beam, such as Lanturn, Slowking, Qwilfish, Uxie, Rotom-C, Roselia, Magmortar, Typhlosion, Sceptile, and Clefable, as well as some offensive Pokemon like Galvantula, Manectric, Lilligant, and Mesprit. Thanks to RestTalk (which lets it absorb sleep from the likes of Lilligant and Amoonguss) keeping it healthy and Marvel Scale boosting its Defense, Dragonair actually benefits from status and is meant to set up while it's afflicted with status. Dragonair can even sweep an entire team while it simply cycles between Rest and Sleep Talk, and sometimes it's even advantageous to do so thanks to the protection from priority Marvel Scale provides and the fact that Sleep Talk bypasses Sucker Punch. However, it's usually best to save Dragonair for mid- to late-game to begin a sweep. Outrage is the sole attacking move on the set, as Dragon is a very good attacking type in RU, and it's easy enough to eliminate the Steel-types from an opponent's team with Magneton support. Caution should be taken with using Outrage all willy-nilly though, and it should only really be used when the sweep is secured, otherwise confusion could cut Dragonair's sweep short.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A specially defensive EV spread takes advantage of both Dragonair's typing and the fact that Marvel Scale will often be boosting its Defense anyway. Marvel Scale is what makes this set work as well as it does, since the boosted Defense lets Dragonair set up on physical attackers it normally wouldn't be able to such as Spiritomb, Hitmonchan, defensive Crustle, and Entei. However, Shed Skin is still viable and can be used to increase the speed with which Dragonair can set up and sweep. If used, Sleep Talk should be replaced with Waterfall or ExtremeSpeed. Shed Skin is more recommended for more offensive sets, though.</p>

<p>Magneton support is highly, highly recommended to make this set work. Choice Specs Magneton in particular works phenomenally well to remove the Steel-types from the opponent's team. With the Steel-types gone, particularly the defensive brutes like Steelix, Aggron, and Escavalier, Dragonair has a much easier time sweeping with Outrage. Specs Magneton also has the power to weaken or eliminate other physically defensive walls like Tangrowth, Alomomola, and Poliwrath. Entry hazard support is also extremely helpful in Dragonair's case, as it lowers the amount of times it needs to set up with Dragon Dance to secure a sweep and also pushes some opponents into KO range of Magneton's attacks. However, if the setup opportunity arises, Dragonair can take the time to set up to +6, so entry hazard support isn't mandatory for it to work.</p>

<p>Another Dragon-type teammate to ensure Steel-types are out of the way, like Druddigon or Fraxure, is also recommended and can put a ton of offensive pressure on the opponent. Dragon Dance Fraxure works particularly well if Dragonair is used mid-game. Really strong physical attackers like Tauros, Hitmonlee, Medicham, Druddigon, Swords Dance Absol, and Kabutops can pose a threat to Dragonair, especially if it's sleeping and Sleep Talk doesn't select the right move for it. These kinds of threats need to be removed or a setup opportunity for Dragonair needs to be created before they can come in to ensure it can outspeed them. Ghost-types like Rotom can help with the Normal- and Fighting-types, and Steel-types like Magneton work well to weaken or remove Druddigon, Absol, and Kabutops. Finally, Dragonair is very prone to getting ruined by critical hits as it sets up, so a back-up plan is always needed. Knowing precisely when a good time to start sweeping is also needed to reduce the chance of this happening; should Dragonair be at +3, +4, +6? Damage calculations help in this endeavor.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Fire Blast can be used over Sleep Talk on the bulky Dragon Dance set if Shed Skin is used. This helps it destroy many of the Steel-types in the tier, though it's not quite powerful enough without a lot of Special Attack investment. Dragon Tail is also usable, especially when supported by a lot of entry hazards, but Dragonair should focus on sweeping. Thunder Wave is about the only other option that could be considered usable on the bulky set, though it's extremely outclassed by other moves.</p>

<p>An offensive Dragon Dance set with Life Orb as the item and ExtremeSpeed and Waterfall as coverage is usable, but while it's slightly faster than Fraxure and has priority, it's much weaker and can't secure a sweep at +1 like Fraxure can. Finally, a special attacking set is possible, but the power is laughable and outclassed by Altaria.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Every Steel-type in RU is a counter to Dragonair, as the only thing most have to worry about are Waterfall and the very rare Fire Blast. However, the Steel-types should be wary about the nearly-guaranteed Magneton that will be paired with Dragonair. Druddigon easily OHKOes Dragonair with Outrage, though it can only risk coming in when Dragonair is sleeping, as otherwise it'll be OHKOed in return. Very strong physical attackers that can 2HKO Dragonair while it's sleeping and can tank a possible Outrage also work well. Examples include Tauros, Kangaskhan, Medicham, Durant, Kabutops, and Hitmonlee. Phazing Pokemon, like Roar Steelix and Circle Throw Poliwrath, also completely nullify Dragonair's efforts, unless it's the last Pokemon. Clear Smog Amoonguss completely neuters Dragonair, even if it's the last Pokemon standing. Finally, other setup sweepers can take advantage of the turns Dragonair is asleep. Those that are bulky enough to tank a possible Outrage work best, which includes Pokemon like Nasty Plot Slowking, SubCM Mesprit, and Bulk Up Gallade.</p>