[Overview]

<p>Dusknoir is, in a nutshell, outclassed. Holding the dubious honor of being the only Pokemon in a lower tier than its pre-evolution, Dusknoir struggles to find much use in the RU metagame. This is because all of its positive points are offset by very negative points. Its incredible base 135 defenses are let down by a laughable base HP of 45, as well as a lack of reliable recovery outside of Pain Split, which is relatively easy to play around. Secondly, while Dusknoir's Attack is very usable, it does not have any powerful moves in its arsenal, with its most powerful STAB move being the weak Shadow Punch. This leaves Dusknoir outclassed offensively by Golurk and Rotom and defensively by Spiritomb and Misdreavus. However, courtesy of its Ghost typing, Dusknoir is capable of spinblocking Cryogonal and Kabutops, two common spinners in the tier, giving it a niche as a tool to keep entry hazards on the field. Dusknoir can also reliably take on Fighting-types such as Hitmonlee, Gallade, and Medicham one-on-one. Overall, before using Dusknoir, consider the existence of the aforementioned better Ghost-types, lest it prove to be a waste of a teamslot.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Will-O-Wisp
move 2: Pain Split
move 3: Fire Punch
move 4: Earthquake
item: Leftovers
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 248 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>If you happen to be using Dusknoir, this is the set you should be running, as it is Dusknoir's best chance of standing out from its superior Ghost-type brethren. With its high defenses and usable Attack supported by its expansive movepool, Dusknoir can fulfill the role of a defensive spinblocker that can endure hits and dish them out decently. Will-O-Wisp is important to cripple physical attackers, especially Kabutops, aiding Dusknoir in its main job. Pain Split is unfortunately Dusknoir's only form of recovery, which is still rather unreliable. Fire Punch is chosen to put the hurt on Cryogonal, a Pokemon that Dusknoir is supposed to beat, and also dent common Pokemon such as Escavalier and Lilligant. Finally, Earthquake is chosen in the last moveslot to hit Kabutops and Fire-types trying to switch into Will-O-Wisp; it also has good coverage with Fire Punch. Although it's almost completely outclassed, Dusknoir can be used to the best of its abilities with this set.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum investment in HP and 248 Defense EVs help Dusknoir avoid being cleanly 2HKOed by Stone Edge from Kabutops even after Stealth Rock damage. The remaining Special Defense EVs ensure that Icicle Plate Cryogonal only 3HKOes Dusknoir with Ice Beam, and defensive variants only 4HKO. An Impish nature complements the Defense EVs perfectly, helping Dusknoir accomplish its spinblocking job better. Leftovers is Dusknoir's only source of recovery outside of Pain Split. Shadow Punch can be used over Fire Punch to hit Uxie, Mesprit, Sigilyph, and other opposing Ghost- and Psychic-types while also providing STAB. However, Fire Punch and Earthquake are almost non-negotiable.</p>

<p>If you do happen to be using Dusknoir, it is best to pair it with a hazard user such as Roselia, Qwilfish, or Crustle to ensure its job as a spinblocker is beneficial to the team in at least some way. Pokemon such as Escavalier and Gallade can work to remove opposing Dark-types while benefiting from Dusknoir's ability to maintain hazards on the field. Absol works well, removing the Ghost-types that Dusknoir almost always struggles with. Clefable is useful for providing Wish and cleric support, helping Dusknoir last longer and also providing useful defensive synergy. Cryogonal or Kabutops are important to keep hazards off the field so that Dusknoir doesn't get worn down to the point where it can't spinblock. Let's face it, though&mdash;you really shouldn't be trying to support Dusknoir in the first place.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Dusknoir has quite the expansive physical movepool, with options such as Ice Punch, ThunderPunch, Rock Slide, Focus Punch, DynamicPunch, Brick Break, Shadow Sneak, and Pursuit. Unfortunately, Dusknoir will never find the room for these moves, as the moves listed in the above moveset are essentially mandatory. It has a good special movepool with Shadow Ball, Ice Beam, Focus Blast, and Psychic along with a boosting move in Calm Mind. Sadly its low Special Attack and Speed aren't doing it any favors. It has a vast support movepool as well, with Rain Dance, Sunny Day, Trick Room, Torment, Toxic, and Psych Up. However, these are put to better use by other Pokemon, and the only notable support move Dusknoir can use effectively is Trick Room with a Life Orb. However, Dusknoir is rather weak to begin with, and there are much better users of Trick Room out there, such as Slowking, Uxie, and Mesprit.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Dusknoir's list of checks and counters is quite long. The first notable Pokemon that can take on Dusknoir are Dark-types such as Absol, Crawdaunt, and Spiritomb. These Pokemon can deal significant damage to Dusknoir but must be wary of Will-O-Wisp. In the same vein, Ghost-types such as Golurk and Rotom can both hit Dusknoir very hard and shrug off anything Dusknoir has to offer outside of the odd Shadow Punch. Strong special attackers such as Magmortar, Sceptile, Omastar, and especially Moltres can take down Dusknoir rather easily, as they don't care about Will-O-Wisp and hit it extremely hard. Taunt and Substitute are also great ways to stop Dusknoir, as they block Will-O-Wisp or Pain Split, and any users of the move can either set up or start wearing Dusknoir down. Drapion, Qwilfish, and Mandibuzz are all good examples of this. Fire-types in general can come in on Will-O-Wisp or Fire Punch and ravage it with their attacks, but they must be wary of Earthquake. Sigilyph can use Dusknoir as setup fodder and either burn it or simply hit it hard depending on its set. Finally, inflicting poison or burn on it will steadily wear Dusknoir down to the point where it can easily be taken out by even moderately strong neutral attacks.</p>