[Overview]

<p>Eelektross is a very unique Pokemon, because thanks to its ability Levitate, it is the third Pokemon with essentially no weaknesses. Eelektross has an excellent movepool consisting of moves such as Thunderbolt, Giga Drain, and Flamethrower, giving it almost flawless coverage. Eelektross even has access to Coil, which allows it to be an effective bulky sweeper. Aside from its Speed, Eelektross has very good stats across the board, making it a very versatile Pokemon that can go both physically and specially offensive. Unfortunately, Eelektross faces competition from faster and more powerful Electric-types, such as Rotom-C, Galvantula, and Manectric, which all have superb coverage. Eelektross's bulk, while good, is not great, and because of its lack of resistances, most powerful attacks will be able to 2HKO it. Eelektross's low Speed is a double-edged sword because while it allows Eelektross to give its teammate a free switch-in with a slow Volt Switch, it also means that foes such as Aggron and Gallade can outspeed and OHKO Eelektross before it has a chance to do much of anything. Finally, Eelektross lacks any form of recovery outside of Drain Punch, Giga Drain, and Rest, meaning that it will get worn down rather easily. Overall, Eelektross is a very good Pokemon, but is only rewarding in a few niche roles.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Pivot
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Flamethrower
move 3: Giga Drain
move 4: Thunderbolt
item: Leftovers / Choice Specs
nature: Modest
evs: 248 HP / 252 SpA / 8 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Eelektross is an excellent offensive pivot thanks to its decent Special Attack, good bulk, and amazing coverage. Volt Switch grants it the ability to scout while still hitting relatively hard. What differentiates Eelektross from other Volt Switch users is its coverage. Flamethrower roasts Grass-types, such as Ferroseed, Rotom-C, and Lilligant, that resist its STAB moves, and Giga Drain takes care of any Pokemon with an Electric immunity such as Lanturn, Golurk, and Rhydon. Thunderbolt is an alternate STAB move, allowing Eelektross to deal more damage to foes like Slowking, Mandibuzz, and Poliwrath and giving it a more useful move in situations when you do not want to switch out.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An alternate EV spread of 94 HP / 252 SpA / 162 Spe can be used to outspeed uninvested base 70s, such as specially defensive Magneton and Roselia, and still hit as hard as possible. However, Eelektross loses a great amount of bulk if using this EV spread. Leftovers is the preferred choice because it allows Eelektross to switch up moves and regain crucial HP; however, Choice Specs provides more power and gives Eelektross a chance to 2HKO walls such as Uxie, Spiritomb, and Cryogonal. Life Orb could be used as a sort of middle ground between Choice Specs and Leftovers, but the recoil counteracts Eelektross's main draw over other Electric-types: decent bulk and its lack of weaknesses. Speaking of items, Expert Belt can be used as it does not cause any recoil and Eelektross hits most of the tier for super effective damage. However, Eelektross appreciates the additional healing from Leftovers or the additional power from Choice Specs more, and it cannot hit many of its counters for super effective damage. Eelektross's fourth moveslot is very adaptable and can be changed for the benefit of your team. Superpower can replace Thunderbolt as it can 2HKO Normal-types such as Bouffalant, Clefable, and Lickilicky as well as OHKO Cryogonal, though a Mild nature should be used if running it. Acid Spray can be used over Volt Switch, as it acts as a pseudo-Nasty Plot and can prove very useful because Eelektross's other moves already provide neutral coverage.</p>

<p>As Eelektross forces many switches, entry hazard support from teammates such as Smeargle, Omastar, Scolipede, and Crustle is recommended to put pressure on the opponent's team. Paralysis support from Pokemon such as Uxie, Slowking, and Druddigon is recommended to mitigate Eelektross's horrendous Speed. Frail Pokemon such as Zangoose and Durant appreciate Eelektross's slow Volt Switch because it provides a free switch-in and activates the former's Toxic Orb. The only Pokemon in RU that resists all of Eelektross's moves is Druddigon, so powerful Steel-types such as Aggron and Escavalier that can tank hits from Druddigon and strike back with their STABs make for good teammates. Samurott and Omastar are also great partners, as they can both strike Druddigon hard with Ice Beam, as well as lure Water- and Electric-types. Jynx OHKOes Druddigon that don't invest in Special Defense with Ice Beam as well, although it needs Stealth Rock to guarantee the KO if unboosted. Eelektross also fits very well on VoltTurn teams, so Pokemon such as Braviary, Rotom-C, and Mesprit are solid partners.</p>

[SET]
name: Coil
move 1: Coil
move 2: ThunderPunch
move 3: Drain Punch
move 4: Substitute
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
evs: 248 HP / 252 SpD / 8 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Eelektross utilizes its bulk and lack of weaknesses to take advantage of Coil and become an offensive and defensive threat. Despite ThunderPunch's low Base Power, it is a great STAB move as it doesn't have recoil like Wild Charge does. Drain Punch works well in conjunction with ThunderPunch because it gives Eelektross extra coverage against Pokemon such as Lanturn, Rotom-F, and Ferroseed, which are all immune or resistant, and allows it to recover HP. Substitute is a great option because with Eelektross's great bulk, its Substitute can survive a hit from defensive Pokemon such as Slowking, Lanturn, and Tangrowth. In addition, Substitute lets Eelektross avoid status and set up Coil boosts with greater ease.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Max HP and Special Defense with a Careful nature are crucial, because without maximum investment Eelektross's Substitute cannot survive a hit from the Pokemon mentioned above and Coil boosts Defense anyways. Zap Cannon can be an alternative to ThunderPunch as it hits almost as hard, makes good use of Coil's accuracy boost, and always paralyzes the opponent, but with it, Eelektross can easily get PP stalled and lose to Calm Mind sweepers such as Uxie and Spiritomb. Furthermore, Zap Cannon has horrible accuracy before the Coil boost, and its power doesn't get increased by Coil, making it the inferior option overall. Dragon Tail is an acceptable option over Substitute because it forces out threats; if you choose that option, be sure to pair Eelektross with entry hazard setters such as Ferroseed and Crustle. Aqua Tail can be used as another attacking option, as it can hit bulky Fire- and Ground-types, such as Golurk and Camerupt (the former of which is immune to both of Eelektross's other attacking moves), much harder. Eelektross is walled by defensive Pokemon such as Rotom, Amoonguss, and Golurk. Pokemon that carry appropriate coverage to check these Pokemon, including Entei, Rotom-C, and Moltres, make great teammates. Both Entei and Moltres also help against Lilligant, which can cripple and set up on Eelektross with Sleep Powder and Quiver Dance. Finally, Eelektross appreciates Heal Bell and Wish support from Pokemon such as Clefable and Alomomola as there are many Pokemon that can status it before it sets up a Substitute.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>When looking at Eelektross you might have noticed it has a higher Attack than Special Attack. You can opt to use Choice Band on Eelektross, as it has many physical moves such as Wild Charge, Superpower, U-turn, and Aqua Tail. The problem is that it is generally inferior to the offensive pivot set, which carries better coverage moves. Furthermore, Wild Charge has recoil, hampering Eelektross's bulk. Though it's generally better to use the ones already listed, Eelektross has quite a few other moves it can used. Dragon Claw stands out the most as it hits Druddigon, Fraxure, and Altaria super effectively, giving Eelektross a shot at doing heavy damage to them. Charge Beam is Eelektross's only way of raising its Special Attack, but it's better off attacking right off the bat with Thunderbolt or Volt Switch, and Charge Beam is outclassed by Acid Spray, which forces more switches and has a guaranteed effect. Eelektross has access to other moves such as Flash Cannon, Rock Slide, Signal Beam, and Crunch, but they don't add much to Eelektross's coverage. Finally, a defensive variant of Eelektross can be used as it has good bulk and moves such Toxic, Thunder Wave, and Light Screen to benefit teammates. However, Eelektross's lack of reliable recovery hinders its ability to go defensive.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Eelektross is very difficult to counter, as very few things can handle both the Coil and offensive pivot sets. Druddigon stands out though, for it easily counters both, as it takes little damage due to its sheer bulk and can phaze out Eelektross or attack with Outrage. Altaria can do a similar job, but it might lose to the Coil set. Specially defensive Gallade handles the offensive pivot set well, and can also outspeed and cripple the Coil set with Will-O-Wisp. Clefable and Lickilicky can take any hit from the offensive pivot, wear down Eelektross with their attacks, and keep themselves healthy with Wish. Both Lickilicky and Clefable lose to the Coil set, however. The Coil set is easier to deal with because it is quite weak prior to boosting. Golurk completely walls the Coil set, only fearing the rare Aqua Tail, and can hit Eelektross hard with Shadow Punch. Taunt users such as Whimsicott and Misdreavus can prevent Eelektross from accumulating any boosts, and the former can even Encore Eelektross into Coil or Substitute. Quagsire stops Coil Eelektross completely because it ignores stat boosts thanks to its ability, Unaware. However, both Quagsire and Whimsicott lose to the special set. Choice Band users such as Emboar, Entei, and Aggron can all outspeed Eelektross and OHKO it with their STABs, but they can't handle Eelektross after a few Coil boosts.</p>