[Overview]

<p>Electivire's best trait is the amazing coverage that it obtains, allowing it to hit almost every Pokemon for super effective damage. Electivire also has generally high offensive stats to utilize its coverage with, while also outpacing most of the metagame with its above average Speed. In addition, unlike most other Electric-types, Electivire is primarily a physical attacker, which allows it to defeat Slowking easier, and access to Flamethrower enables to hit certain physical walls, such as Tangrowth and Amoonguss, harder than others. Unfortunately, Electivire still struggles against bulky Pokemon that it cannot hit super effectively such as Uxie, Crustle, and Spiritomb, and it can rarely OHKO its foes even with super effective attacks. This, combined with its frailty, entry hazard susceptibility, and recoil from Life Orb and its main STAB move in Wild Charge, wears Electivire down fast. Electivire also lacks a viable way to boost its offensive stats, making it struggle heavily defensively-oriented teams, often going down on its own accord. Electivire has many flaws, but it's overall a very unique Electric-type and is good at wearing down the opposition with its impeccable coverage and offensive prowess.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Wild Charge
move 2: Flamethrower
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Ice Punch
item: Life Orb / Expert Belt
ability: Motor Drive
nature: Naive
evs: 248 Atk / 36 SpA / 224 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Electivire's best traits are shown in this set&mdash;namely, a significant amount of coverage. As one of the few physically offensive Electric-types, it plays differently from other Electric-types in the tier. With that in mind, it's important to know that even though the listed moves can 2HKO most of the metagame, Electivire cannot OHKO very many Pokemon, and the opponent can predict around it while it wears itself out with recoil damage. As a result, it works best as a late-game attacker, letting its teammates weaken the opponent and lay entry hazards until it goes in for the KO.</p> 

<p>In DPP, Electivire lacked a strong STAB option, but BW gifted it with Wild Charge, somewhat fulfilling that wish. As a result, it's Electivire's preferred STAB move, as it comes off of Electivire's higher Attack stat and covers dangerous threats such as Slowking, Qwilfish, Moltres, and Kabutops. Flamethrower complements Wild Charge well, hitting common physical walls such as Steelix and Tangrowth hard, as both are immune to or resist Electric-type moves. Earthquake is mainly for opposing Electric-types, which it can typically get a free switch into thanks to Motor Drive, Fire-type Pokemon such as Typhlosion and Entei, and Aggron. Finally, Ice Punch is useful to get a strong hit on Druddigon and Ground-type Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs allow Electivire to OHKO Tangrowth with Flamethrower after Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes, outspeed Rotom and everything slower, and provide extra power for its physical attacks. However, if eliminating Tangrowth from the match is extremely important, 188 Special Attack EVs can be used to land an OHKO on it after Stealth Rock damage, but this weakens Electivire's physical moves by quite a bit. Motor Drive is the best ability for Electivire, as it grants it a free switch into Electric-type moves, particularly the common Thunder Wave and Volt Switch. The Speed boost can also be helpful for cleaning up teams, but this will only come into play if the opponent is significantly weakened. While it might seem weird to suggest Life Orb over Expert Belt when Electivire's main draw is its coverage, Life Orb gives Wild Charge a notable boost against neutral targets. However, an Expert Belt gives Electivire more survivability and Electivire often hits most of its targets for super effective damage. Electivire has two other usable STAB moves in Thunderbolt and ThunderPunch, but they both are much weaker than Wild Charge. Regardless, Thunderbolt still has a high Base Power and can hit Alomomola and Qwilfish harder, although hitting Slowking's lower Defense tends to be more important, while ThunderPunch's lack of recoil means Electivire won't get worn down as quickly.</p>

<p>As mentioned before, without entry hazard support, Electivire struggles to OHKO anything aside from non-defensive Pokemon that are weak to Wild Charge or opponents that are frail. In addition, Electivire forces a lot of switches with its coverage, so entry hazards can wear down the opponent's team as they try to predict around Electivire. As a result, Omastar and Qwilfish make good partners, as both of them can place Spikes (the former also gets Stealth Rock) on the field and attract Electric-type moves to activate Electivire's Motor Drive. Ferroseed also makes a good partner, as it also gets both forms of entry hazards while taking little damage from priority moves and Earthquake, which are often targeted at Electivire. Finally, because Electivire can wear down and possibly KO Pokemon such as Slowking, Rotom, Tangrowth, and Steelix, it can open up the way for a teammate to attack without getting easily walled. Because of this, Kabutops, Druddigon, and Aggron&mdash;which all struggle with one or more of the aforementioned Pokemon&mdash;make good teammates, as their STAB moves are far more threatening when the opponent lacks a bulky Pokemon that can resist it.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Electivire has other options to consider, but they are rarely worth using. The first of which is Vital Spirit, which is a useful ability in a tier where sleep inducers such as Lilligant and Smeargle are common. While Vital Spirit is useful, Motor Drive makes Electivire a much scarier late-game sweeper. Some of Electivire's best checks, mainly bulky Ground-types, are hit hard by Hidden Power Grass, but Ice Punch does enough damage to most of them, and the ones it doesn't do very much against are rare or defeat it regardless. Electivire's only means of setup is via Meditate, but finding the opportunity to set up with Electivire is tough, though it could be worth it. Cross Chop is useful for hitting Clefable and other Normal-types, but its use essentially stops there, and its other moves are typically more useful. Electivire's strongest move is actually Focus Punch despite the fact that it lacks a STAB boost, so it is capable of running a decent SubPunch set, aided by the fact that it causes a lot of switches. Unfortunately, using two moveslots ultimately limits Electivire's coverage immensely, and even though its Focus Punch is strong, it pales in comparison to other SubPunch users that get a STAB boost. Finally, Electivire's decent offensive stats, good movepool, and access to Volt Switch allow it to utilize all Choice items effectively, but the main issue is that it cannot switch moves in this case, which is Electivire's most useful trait.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Not very many Pokemon can counter Electivire due to its high offensive stats and amazing coverage, but Electivire struggles to get past Pokemon that aren't weak to any particular move it carries, or Pokemon who have good defensive stats. Bulky Ground-types, such as Piloswine and Rhydon, stand out as the best checks, as they can take anything bar the rare Hidden Power Grass (and in Rhydon's case, Earthquake, does a noticeable amount of damage) and OHKO it back with Earthquake. Quagsire is also a formidable switch-in, as it is immune to Wild Charge, resists Flamethrower, and takes neutral damage from Electivire's coverage moves; however, it too must be aware of Hidden Power Grass variants. Crustle can use Electivire as setup fodder thanks to its high Defense, and either set up entry hazards or Shell Smash, or just hit Electivire with its STAB move or Earthquake. Although Regirock is weak to Earthquake, it can sponge the move with its massive Defense and OHKO back with an Earthquake of its own. Bulky versions of Rotom avoid the 2HKO from anything Electivire has and can burn it with Will-O-Wisp; keep in mind, though, that Ice Punch will 2HKO offensive variants of Rotom. Uxie doesn't take very much damage from any of Electivire's moves and can wear it down with its own STAB moves. Any Gardevoir with Trace gets a free switch into Wild Charge thanks to it copying Motor Drive, and it can hit Electivire back with its STAB moves. There are several revenge killers that can OHKO Electivire, such as Choice Scarf Emboar and Medicham, along with Choice Band Entei thanks to ExtremeSpeed, which manages to KO after some prior damage. Finally, if all else fails, smart switching will aid in defeating Electivire; between Life Orb damage and Wild Charge recoil, it might end up defeating itself in due time.</p>