[Overview] 

<p>Electrode is one of the fastest Pokemon in the game, and its access to some nifty moves such as Taunt, Rain Dance, and Light Screen turns it into a great team supporter. Apart from its Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed, Electrode's stats are decidedly average, so it's best to avoid any set that doesn't utilize these assets. Electrode only has a single weakness to Ground-type moves, but they're easily avoided thanks to Magnet Rise and the new BW item, Air Balloon. A new addition to Electrode's movepool is Volt Switch; it works in a similar way as U-turn, and it allows Electrode to switch out to another teammate while still inflicting damage. There's no wonder why Electrode has such a smile on its face, as it can be a true menace when used correctly.</p>

[SET] 
name: Rain Dance Support
move 1: Rain Dance
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Thunder
move 4: Explosion / Volt Switch
item: Damp Rock 
ability: Static / Aftermath
nature: Naive
evs: 252 Atk / 100 SpA / 156 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Electrode's blistering Speed means it can set up seven turns of rain for its teammates, and due to its access to Taunt, it can stop the opponent from using dangerous moves such as Stealth Rock, Sleep Powder, and Thunder Wave. Thunder becomes extremely dangerous in the rain; its accuracy is raised to 100%, and thanks to Electrode's typing, it also receives a STAB boost. Explosion can be used in the final slot to give a teammate a safe switch-in, though the new game mechanics mean it will be a lot weaker than it was in DPP. Finally, Volt Switch can be used to scout the opposing team while simultaneously harming the opponent.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>156 Speed EVs ensure that Electrode reaches 390 Speed, which is enough to outrun neutral nature base 80s holding a Choice Scarf. Maximum Attack EVs give Explosion as much power as it can get, and the remaining EVs are placed into Special Attack to give Thunder a healthy power boost. Alternatively, you can place 252 EVs into Special Attack and only 100 EVs into Attack, though this significantly weakens Explosion's power. A Naive nature is preferred over Hasty because most priority moves are physical, and Electrode's Defense is poor enough already. As for the ability, Static is more useful than Soundproof, as it has a 30% chance to paralyze an opponent who strikes Electrode physically. Soundproof is only helpful for blocking moves such as Roar, Bug Buzz, and Sing. An Air Balloon can be used over Damp Rock if you would like an immunity to Ground-type moves, though this cuts the rain to five turns; the Air Balloon is easily broken by any direct damage anyway. Hidden Power Water is an option over Explosion if you wish to hit Ground-types, and becomes viable thanks to the boost from the rain.</p>

<p>Whether they be Swift Swim users or Rain Dish abusers, Partners who can take advantage of the rain are ideal. Kabutops is an excellent choice thanks to its great Attack, decent coverage, and access to Swords Dance. Omastar is Kabutops's special counterpart; its massive Special Attack and Swift Swim ability turn it into a deadly sweeper in the rain, and when the rain is active, it's almost impossible to stop. Ludicolo is another great choice; it only has three weaknesses and access to Rain Dish and Leech Seed. Alternatively, you can use an offensive set with Swift Swim to take advantage of Ludicolo's great coverage and high powered attacks. Finally, Magneton can use the rain to abuse a 100% accurate Thunder; its Fire-type weakness is also mitigated by the rain.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Hidden Power Ice
move 3: Taunt
move 4: Volt Switch / Charge Beam
item: Life Orb
ability: Static / Aftermath
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set plays differently from the above. Instead of setting up for other teammates, Electrode uses its decent Special Attack and Speed to become a sweeper. Thunderbolt and Hidden Power Ice provide excellent coverage, creating a pseudo-BoltBeam combination. Hidden Power Water or Grass can be used to hit Ground-types if you wish, although this loses coverage against Grass-types. Taunt is used to stop the opponent from using recovery or set-up moves, which allows Electrode to defeat bulky walls such as Clefable. In the final slot, Volt Switch allows Electrode to scout and deal damage upon switching out, whereas Charge Beam can be used for its chance to boost Special Attack.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum investment in Speed and Special Attack are used to beef up Electrode's offensive power, while the remaining EVs are placed into its HP. Signal Beam can be used in conjunction with Hidden Power Grass or Water to hit Grass-types, though it would have to replace Taunt or Volt Switch. A Life Orb gives Electrode the ability to switch moves, and the extra power is very welcome. Choice Specs is an option, though it restricts Electrode's move choices, and makes it extremely difficult to cover all of the necessary types.</p>

<p>As this set is played offensively, support from entry hazards is appreciated. Uxie and Sandslash can set up Stealth Rock, and both can easily switch into Ground-type moves. Crustle can also set up Stealth Rock, but it has the added benefit of having access to Spikes. When using entry hazards, a spinblocker such as Dusknoir or Rotom is recommended. Pokemon who can switch into Ground-type attacks are great partners; Mandibuzz, Aerodactyl, and Sigilyph are all excellent choices; they're all immune to Ground-type moves, and Electrode can switch into Electric-type moves aimed at them.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Besides the moves already listed, Electrode doesn't have a lot of options. Many of these moves are gimmicky, though you can pull them off if you're lucky. Magnet Rise gives Electrode a temporary immunity to Ground-type moves, though using an Air Balloon is usually more reliable. Mirror Coat can be used for the surprise value, but it usually just wastes a moveslot. Light Screen can weaken special attacks for Electrode's team, though Electrode's moveset usually doesn't have room for it. A Toxic stall set with Substitute is rather gimmicky, but because of Electrode's high Speed, it may be possible. Electro Ball can be used in tandem with Thunder Wave in order to hit opponents hard, but it's pretty unreliable. Torment can cripple Choice users and Pokemon who attempt to set up, but again, it's a fairly poor choice. Screech can be used along with Return, Sucker Punch, and Wild Charge, but coming from a base 50 Attack, these attacks won't be doing much. Finally, Thunder Wave can be used to cripple Choice Scarf users who switch in and attempt to revenge kill Electrode.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Electrode is usually specially based, so Pokemon with good Special Defense are all excellent checks to Electrode. Clefable, Dusknoir, Gallade, and Ludicolo are some great choices; they just need to watch out for Taunt. Lanturn and Rotom-A can take on most sets thanks to their great typing, but again, just watch out for Taunt. Sandslash and Steelix are immune to Electrode's STAB, but they must be careful depending on which Hidden Power it carries. Choice Scarf revenge killers such as Hitmonlee and Primeape also make decent checks to Electrode. Tangrowth can take a neutral hit from Electrode, and has access to Earthquake to KO it easily. Electrode is fairly difficult to counter, mainly because of its massive Speed, but also because most of the time it only wants to set up or Taunt.</p>