[Overview]

<p>After spending the last decade being completely outclassed, first by its fellow legendary beasts and later by Arcanine, Entei has finally found a home in RU. With most of its rivals safely locked away in higher tiers, Entei is free to rampage through RU unhindered. Its high Attack and Speed stats and access to Flare Blitz and ExtremeSpeed make Entei easily one of the best physical attackers in the tier, but it can also use Calm Mind to become one of RU's most dangerous (and overlooked) special sweepers. Its movepool is quite shallow, and the forced Adamant nature that comes with its event moves hinders it to an extent, but do not overlook Entei; its power and versatility make it a Pokemon every successful team must consider.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Flare Blitz
move 2: ExtremeSpeed
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Hidden Power Grass / Sleep Talk
item: Choice Band / Flame Plate
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Entei's combination of power, Speed, bulk, access to ExtremeSpeed, and immunity to Will-O-Wisp makes it one of RU's most fearsome physical attackers. With a Choice Band equipped, Flare Blitz 2HKOes everything that doesn't resist it, while ExtremeSpeed takes a huge chunk out of most offensive Pokemon. Together, these two moves make Entei both a powerful wallbreaker and an excellent revenge killer. In the third slot, Stone Edge OHKOes Aerodactyl, Moltres, and most relevant Fire-types. Unfortunately, Entei's physical movepool essentially ends there, so the final slot is largely filler. Hidden Power Grass may seem out of place on a Choice Band set, but it allows Entei to 2HKO a few Pokemon that would otherwise force it out, such as Kabutops, Omastar, Quagsire, and Rhydon. Sleep Talk is a useful option for handling sleep inducers, as Entei can switch into almost all of them including Smeargle, Lilligant, Tangrowth, and Amoonguss.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Flare Blitz and ExtremeSpeed are event moves with an unfortunate restriction: to use them, Entei must have an Adamant nature (and be shiny). This means that Entei will always be slower than Pokemon such as Timid Moltres and Jolly Drapion, despite having a higher base Speed. With 252 Speed EVs, Entei outspeeds the Rotom appliances and everything below, but you can use a slightly slower spread of 60 HP / 252 Atk / 196 Spe to give Entei a little extra bulk while still allowing it to outpace positive-natured base 80 Speed Pokemon such as Gallade.</p>

<p>Choice Band allows Entei to hit as hard as possible, the only drawback being that Entei is locked into one move. To fix this, Entei can hold a Flame Plate. Flame Plate allows Entei to switch moves while maintaining power on its STAB Flare Blitz, but the power drop in Entei's other moves is noticeable. However, a Flame Plate can do a good job at bluffing a Choice Band, as you may be able to fool a Kabutops into thinking that you're locked into Flare Blitz. Another solid item choice would be for Entei to hold a Life Orb. Life Orb also gives Entei the flexibility to change moves, but maintains higher power on all of Entei's attacks instead of just Flare Blitz. Life Orb grants Entei much more power in general than Flame Plate, but the recoil between entry hazards, Flare Blitz, and Life Orb itself severely limits Entei's longevity. Another option if holding a Choice Band would be Bite, as it 2HKOes defensive Slowking. If not using a Choice Band, an option in the fourth moveslot would be Will-O-Wisp, as it can cripple physical attackers such as Druddigon that tend to switch in. Roar may also be used, but it is generally inferior to the other available options.</p> 

<p>The power and versatility of this set make it a good fit on nearly any offensive team, but it does need some specific support to reach its full potential. Poliwrath and defensive Qwilfish can switch into Entei all day, so a powerful Electric-type attacker, such as Rotom-C or Manectric, is a great help. Entei is weak to Stealth Rock and vulnerable to Spikes, and as a Choice item user, it will want to switch in several times, so Rapid Spin support is very beneficial. Kabutops can remove entry hazards for Entei, and together with Rotom-C, the trio forms the powerful Fire / Water / Grass core. Kabutops can't switch into Hidden Power Grass or Will-O-Wisp, but it can come in on Flare Blitz or ExtremeSpeed and KO Entei with Aqua Jet; therefore, a Pokemon that can take out Kabutops, such as Sceptile, is a good teammate. Finally, Entei appreciates entry hazard support as Stealth Rock and Spikes can push a 3HKO on something such as Slowking to a 2HKO. Smeargle is great for setting up entry hazards early-game, and it can give the team early momentum by putting something to sleep with Spore.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Calm Mind
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Flamethrower / Lava Plume
move 4: Hidden Power Grass / Roar
item: Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 136 HP / 120 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With base 100 Speed and the ability to create 101 HP Substitutes, Entei is an excellent bulky Calm Mind sweeper. Although Entei's average Special Attack and limited special movepool prevent this set from being as immediately threatening as its physical set, it is surprisingly easy to set up. Entei's reputation as a powerful physical attacker makes it easy to force a switch and set up an initial Calm Mind or Substitute, and many of the best switch-ins to its physical sets, such as Kabutops and Poliwrath, are forced to switch right back out when they realize that Entei is running a special set. Entei's 101 HP Substitutes and high base Speed also allow it to set up on nearly any wall. If your opponent lacks the right counter or waits too long to switch it in, Entei quickly becomes unstoppable.</p>

<p>The first two moves are obvious, and Flamethrower is a pretty clear choice as well; its 100% accuracy means that Entei doesn't have to worry about losing its Substitute due to an untimely miss, and it has plenty of power once Entei has set up. Lava Plume can be used over Flamethrower for its high chance to burn the opponent. Hidden Power Grass is usually the best option in the last slot to cover Pokemon such as Kabutops, Quagsire, and Rhydon. However, Roar is also a viable option, especially with entry hazard support. Phazing is one of the only ways for opponents to stop Entei once it sets up, but Entei outspeeds every common phazer and can Roar them out first, forcing them to take another round of hazard damage and giving itself another turn to set up. Roar also prevents Pokemon such as Calm Mind Slowking and Calm Mind Uxie from setting up alongside Entei. However, sacrificing Hidden Power Grass means most Water-types will completely wall Entei, and Roar's negative priority means they will always be able to hit Entei with Surf or Waterfall before it can phaze them out, so Entei will need its teammates to eliminate the opponent's Water-types before it attempts to sweep.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Hidden Power Rock is another option in the last slot to hit Altaria, Moltres, and other Fire-types, but it forces Entei to have an imperfect Speed IV, and Entei can use most Fire-types as setup fodder anyway. The given EVs maximize Entei's Speed and allow it to create 101 HP Substitutes, while the leftover EVs go in Special Attack to boost Entei's power. While this spread gives the best balance between power and ability to set up, by no means is it the only option. For example, reducing Entei's Speed investment to 176 EVs will still allow it to outspeed Timid Lilligant and Moltres while freeing up some EVs to invest in additional bulk or power. Taking things even further, a completely defensive spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD with Lava Plume in place of Flamethrower will make it much easier for Entei to set up against offensive Pokemon, although the lack of Speed leaves it more vulnerable to status. On the other hand, an all-out offensive spread of 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe with Fire Blast will make Entei much more powerful, but this also makes it harder to keep a Substitute up. Which spread is best depends on what your team needs Entei to set up on, so play around with it until you find the one that works best for you.</p>

<p>This set can be extremely difficult to stop once it gets going, but it does have a couple of solid counters, especially once you reveal Entei's fourth move. If Entei lacks Roar, Dragon Dance Altaria can set up in its face, while defensive Moltres can simply phaze Entei out. If Entei forgoes Hidden Power Grass, most Water-types can beat it, especially Quagsire (which ignores Entei's boosts due to Unaware) and Water / Rock-types such as Omastar and Kabutops. Either way, entry hazard support is Entei's best friend. Stealth Rock cripples Moltres and Altaria, while multiple layers of Spikes allow Entei to stall out Water-types by simply phazing them out as they break its Substitute, and then setting up a new Substitute as they switch back in and take another round of hazard damage. Ferroseed is a great partner that can often stack several layers of Spikes; it also lures in Fire-type attacks for Entei to switch in on, and it can use Leech Seed to keep Entei healthy during its initial setup.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Physical Entei can forgo a boosting item and use Leftovers instead to take advantage of its natural bulk and avoid being worn down by residual damage. This opens up some new options for that otherwise forgettable fourth moveslot, most notably Will-O-Wisp. Using Leftovers reduces Entei's potency as a wallbreaker and revenge killer, but it still has respectable power even without a boosting item, and the ability to stick around longer and cripple certain counters with a burn is sometimes worth the power drop.</p>

<p>Entei can use a mono-attacking set with RestTalk, Lava Plume, and Calm Mind to keep itself healthy and potentially set up multiple boosts (especially with a few lucky burns). Such a set is very threatening to stall teams, but it is also an invitation for Omastar to come in, set up a Shell Smash, and sweep your team. You can try a more defensive RestTalk set with Roar in place of Calm Mind to spread burns and rack up entry hazard damage, or even a full support set with Will-O-Wisp and Reflect as well, but Entei's common weaknesses make it a poor wall in general.</p>

<p>An all-out offensive Calm Mind set with Fire Blast, Hidden Power Grass, and Stone Edge can surprise some of Entei's counters. Stone Edge may seem unorthodox on a Calm Mind set, but even without much Attack investment it does significant damage to Altaria and Moltres, which are normally good switch-ins to special Entei. Extrasensory is also an option for decent neutral coverage, although the only target it's really useful against is Qwilfish. Shadow Ball is the only other coverage move Entei has that's worth noting, but it offers absolutely no additional coverage over the options already mentioned.</p>

<p>Choice Scarf is a usable item on Entei, either as a physical attacker with Flare Blitz or a special attacker with Eruption. However, ExtremeSpeed makes Choice Scarf somewhat redundant for the physical attacker, and Eruption is generally used better by Typhlosion. Flame Charge is a decent option to boost Entei's Speed while retaining the ability to switch moves, and Entei's movepool is small enough that it won't mind only having three true attacking moves. Finally, Entei can use Howl to boost its already impressive Attack even higher; just note that Howl is an event move like Flare Blitz and ExtremeSpeed, meaning it forces Entei to run an Adamant nature, which makes it slower than many of the tier's top threats.</p>

<p>A Sunny Day set with Flare Blitz and SolarBeam can be used, as Flare Blitz will hit like a truck and SolarBeam will eliminate Water-types more effectively than Hidden Power Grass. However, SolarBeam will not be that strong, as Entei struggles to divide its EVs equally. Furthermore, a Sunny Day set is generally outclassed by Typhlosion who is faster and has higher Special Attack. ExtremeSpeed and Stone Edge are really the only advantages that Entei has over Typhlosion, but physical sun sweepers are rare so a Sunny Day set is usable.</p>   

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Quagsire, Alomomola, Poliwrath, and Intimidate Qwilfish all counter physical sets quite effectively, but none of them enjoy taking boosted special attacks. Other Water-types such as Kabutops, Carracosta, and Omastar 4x resist Flare Blitz and also resist ExtremeSpeed, but neither of them enjoy taking a 4x super effective Hidden Power Grass; however, the former two can KO Entei with Aqua Jet before it has the chance to use Hidden Power Grass. Rock-types such as Rhydon can take on Entei, but they also fear Hidden Power Grass and dislike being crippled by Will-O-Wisp. A physically defensive Druddigon also takes Entei's attacks quite well and can cause damage with Rough Skin, but Druddigon distastes Will-O-Wisp. Calm Mind variants have trouble dealing significant damage to Moltres and Altaria, but they in turn cannot do much back to Entei, and they greatly dislike Stone Edge. Fast Pokemon with super effective STAB attacks, such as Aerodactyl and Archeops, can be troublesome for Entei, but physical sets can bypass this Speed difference with ExtremeSpeed, and special sets will often have a Substitute up to prevent revenge killing. Entry hazards are an effective way to weaken Entei, as it is weak to Stealth Rock and fully vulnerable to Spikes. The damage taken switching in will greatly reduce Entei's ability to set up, and Toxic Spikes will completely ruin any Calm Mind sets.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Entei receives Flash Fire from the Dream World, which will allow it to switch into Fire-type attacks for a free power boost and fire off a frighteningly powerful Flare Blitz. However, once Flash Fire is released, it will most likely be released without Flare Blitz and ExtremeSpeed, so it would have to use Pressure for physical sets. </p>