[Overview]

<p>Escavalier's Bug / Steel typing is nothing new; sadly, the only other Bug / Steel type it outclasses is Wormadam-S. However, in the depths of RU, Escavalier is a force to be reckoned with. Its massive base 135 Attack and 70 / 105 / 105 defenses make it the perfect Choice Band user. Escavalier can tank multiple hits and demolish almost everything with a Choice Band-boosted STAB Megahorn coming off its incredible Attack stat. Megahorn even has the possibility of becoming stronger, as Escavalier's Swarm ability will activate if Escavalier happens to have less than 1/3 of its HP. Other than this, Escavalier is quite the straightforward Pokemon. Its typing is great in RU, as Steel-types are lacking, and its high defenses allow it to take quite a few physical and special hits; however, Escavalier lacks reliable recovery, so it can be worn down easily. Escavalier's movepool is quite simple as well: Megahorn, Iron Head, Pursuit, and Return is about all it gets for offensive moves. However, with the rise of Escavalier in the RU metagame, the use of lures with Fire moves have increased, making it dangerous for Escavalier when facing Pokemon that can use Fire moves and KO it. Finally, Escavalier's abysmal base 20 Speed is its only other major downside, but that can be changed under Trick Room. That's about all there is to Escavalier.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Megahorn
move 2: Iron Head
move 3: Pursuit
move 4: Return / Sleep Talk
item: Choice Band
ability: Swarm
nature: Adamant
evs: 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is fairly straightforward, as Escavalier's offensive movepool is severely lacking. Basically, Escavalier can use its good typing and bulk to come in on a resisted hit, and then use Megahorn to tear apart and weaken the opposing team. Should the opponent have a Pokemon which resists Megahorn, either Iron Head or Return can be used. Iron Head dents the pesky Rock-types that stand in Megahorn's way, such as Rhydon and Aggron, as well as Golurk. Return is Escavalier's only option to hit opposing Fire-types, which resist both of Escavalier's STAB moves. Pursuit is extremely useful for trapping fleeing foes such as Cryogonal, Jynx, Roselia, Rotom, Sigilyph, and Slowking. Finally, Sleep Talk can be used instead of Return, as Escavalier makes for a great sleep absorber; it can take on the likes of Tangrowth, Lilligant, Jynx, and Smeargle provided the former two lack Hidden Power Fire. However, Sleep Talk is quite situational, and the ability to hit Fire-types is tough to give up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread maximizes Escavalier's overall bulk and allows it to hit as hard as possible, while letting Escavalier outspeed minimum Speed base 30 Speed Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Slowking, the latter is especially important as it saves Escavalier the trouble of getting hit by a potential Fire Blast, simply outspeeding and KOing the Slowking beforehand. A Brave nature with 0 Speed IVs, can be used as well if Escavalier is being used on a Trick Room team. Alternatively, Escavalier can use 124 Speed EVs in order to outspeed Spiritomb and OHKO it with Megahorn before Escavalier gets burned by Will-O-Wisp. An Occa Berry can be used on Escavalier instead of a Choice Band. While it doesn't pack nearly as much power as Choice Band Escavalier, Occa Berry gives him the one time ability to take certain Fire-type moves that he usually wouldn't be able to take such as Slowking's Fire Blast and Lilligant's Hidden Power Fire. Be sure to note that Escavalier still can't hope to take a powerful STAB Fire-type move such as Moltres's Fire Blast, though.</p>

<p>Pokemon that can take Fire-type moves are good partners, such as Lanturn, who counters Moltres and spreads paralysis for Escavalier. Slowking is also a good teammate, as he eliminates Poliwrath and Steelix, Escavalier's two biggest counters. Slowking can also provide Trick Room support, which makes Escavalier one of the fastest Pokemon under the distorted field. Finally, Escavalier has a limit when it comes to taking attacks, so Wish support from Pokemon such as Clefable is greatly appreciated to increase Escavalier's longevity.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Megahorn
move 2: Iron Head
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Protect / Pursuit / Rest
item: Leftovers / Chesto Berry
ability: Swarm
nature: Careful
evs: 248 HP / 8 Atk / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Escavalier's awesome Bug / Steel typing and base 105 defenses allow Escavalier to take on many common attacks. It puts a stop to lots of special attackers including Lilligant (if it lacks Hidden Power Fire), Mesprit, Tangrowth, Slowking that lack Fire Blast, and Jynx. Megahorn and Iron Head are still strong STAB moves despite only having minor Attack investment, and they can hit all of the aforementioned threats super effectively. Toxic can wear down opposing walls such as Sandslash, Quagsire, and Lanturn, and works great in tandem with Protect. Protect also helps Escavalier gain HP back through Leftovers, as it will be protected from attacks for a turn. Pursuit is also an option in the last slot, as it traps Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Uxie, Rotom, and Slowking. The final option, Rest, is sadly Escavalier's only form of recovery outside of Leftovers. This can, however, increase Escavalier's longevity and ability to take additional hits. Should Rest be chosen, a Chesto Berry can be used so Escavalier can wake up immediately and get right back into action.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread makes Escavalier a great wall: 248 HP EVs are used to minimize the damage that Escavalier takes from Stealth Rock upon switching in, 252 Special Defense EVs are used to take the plethora of special attacks that exist in RU, and the rest of the EVs are put into Attack to slightly buff the power of Megahorn and Iron Head. Depending on your team's needs, Escavalier can run 252 Defense EVs instead of 252 Special Defense EVs to take on physical attackers such as Druddigon and Fraxure. The choice of ability is also up to you; Swarm makes Escavalier more threatening when its HP dips, while Shell Armor protects Escavalier from critical hits, something that most walls would benefit from.</p>

<p>Surprisingly, Escavalier has a couple of other support moves that it can use. Knock Off can be useful for removing the items of the opponent's Pokemon, and is especially good for removing important items such as Leftovers and Eviolite. This can allow Escavalier to wear the enemy down with Toxic and attack them with more power. Escavalier can also utilize Rest and Sleep Talk. This allows it to take on the likes of Tangrowth, Lilligant, Jynx, and Smeargle, as well as being able to attack while sleeping. With the RestTalk combination, Escavalier can also forgo Chesto Berry for Leftovers to get a bit of extra recovery. Again, Pokemon that resist Fire-type moves are the best teammates. Poliwrath is a great partner in particular, as it resists Fire-type moves but also takes on physical attackers for Escavalier. Other good teammates include those with Wish or Heal Bell, such as Clefable, as they can cure Escavalier which will help its walling abilities.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Escavalier's movepool is extremely shallow, and most other options are situational. Escavalier can use Swords Dance, but it is way too slow to sweep. It can also use a set with Reversal or Rock Smash to do better against Steel-types such as Steelix. Speaking of Steelix, Focus Blast can be used to hit it harder, but Escavalier's pitiful Special Attack means that it won't get much use out of the move. Knock Off can be used to rid opponents of their items, but is generally only useful on the defensive set. Finally, Escavalier can use Rain Dance to support a rain team; it also weakens Fire-type attacks which will help Escavalier take a hit or two.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fire-types are the best counters, as they resist both of Escavalier's STABs. The two that stand out are Moltres and Emboar, as they 4x resist Escavalier's most powerful move, Megahorn. Other Fire-types such as Entei, Magmortar, and Typhlosion will also do a number on Escavalier, but must be careful of Return. Aside from Fire-types, Steelix is probably the best counter to Escavalier; with its mammoth base 200 Defense and resistance to every move that Escavalier would commonly use, Escavalier can't touch Steelix. Poliwrath resists both of Escavalier's STABs as well, and can retaliate with Scald. Aggron resists Megahorn and can OHKO with Head Smash, but it must be careful of being worn down by Iron Head. Magneton traps Escavalier and resists all of Escavalier's moves, but Escavalier is so powerful that it can 2HKO Magneton with Megahorn.</p>

<p>Aside from the aforementioned counters, burn is Escavalier's next biggest fear. Bulky Pokemon with Will-O-Wisp, namely Ghost-types such as Rotom who resist Megahorn, can burn it. Bulky Water-types such as Lanturn and the aforementioned Poliwrath resist Iron Head and can burn it with Scald. Aside from these Pokemon, faster Pokemon with Fire-type moves can revenge kill Escavalier, such as Heat Wave Sigilyph, Fire Blast Slowking, Hidden Power Fire Lilligant and Cryogonal, and Fire Blast Absol. Finally, as Escavalier lacks reliable recovery, entry hazards wear it down. Remember that even though it has a stellar typing and great defenses, it can't keep taking hits forever.</p>