[Overview]

<p>Big boss alligator himself is here in the form of Feraligatr, one of the more fearsome Pokemon in RU. Wielding dual setup moves in Swords Dance and Dragon Dance along with a solid movepool to make use of them makes Feraligatr an incredibly effective sweeper. Powerful priority in Aqua Jet combined with stellar coverage options in Superpower, Crunch, and Ice Punch make both the Swords Dance and Dragon Dance sets very efficient as well as difficult to wall or revenge kill effectively, especially with a Torrent boost. Despite Feraligatr's solid offensive prowess, it does have a few issues. Choice Scarf users that resist Aqua Jet, such as Rotom-C, can effectively revenge kill Feraligatr with relative ease, whereas bulky Grass- and Water-types, such as Tangrowth and Slowking, are able to wall it depending on Feraligatr's coverage moves of choice. In addition, Feraligatr faces stiff competition as a Swords Dance user from the more powerful Kabutops, and competes with Crawdaunt as a Dragon Dance user. Nevertheless, Feraligatr is a significant offensive threat in the RU metagame.</p>

[SET]
name: GATR TIME (Swords Dance)
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Aqua Jet
move 3: Waterfall
move 4: Return / Crunch
item: Life Orb
nature: Adamant
evs: 104 HP / 252 Atk / 152 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>It's Gatr Time! Swords Dance turns Feraligatr into an absolute juggernaut that can both crush walls and wipe out sweepers with ease. Grab that boost at the right moment and then watch with pride as Feraligatr tears the opponent's team apart in just a few turns. With a little bit of residual damage, Aqua Jet OHKOes most of the fast, frail Pokemon that outspeed Feraligatr, including Rotom, Accelgor, Manectric, and Primeape. Meanwhile, Waterfall easily 2HKOes any wall that doesn't resist it, and Feraligatr's solid natural bulk allows it to take a hit from most defensive Pokemon and carry on sweeping. In fact, opponents that try to wear Feraligatr down with weak attacks often hasten their own demise by bringing it into Torrent range; three Torrent-boosted hits from +2 Feraligatr will often translate into three quick KOs. Return is generally the best coverage option, as it hits every common Pokemon that resists Water neutrally, barring Ferroseed. Crunch is also a worthy option for super effective coverage against foes like Slowking and Uxie that could otherwise survive any of Feraligatr's attacks and cripple it with status or powerful special attacks. However, Poliwrath completely walls Feraligatr without Return, and the lower Base Power of Crunch makes it harder for Feraligatr to get past other bulky Pokemon that resist Water, such as Lanturn and Druddigon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Feraligatr sits immediately below the base 80 Speed tier, which means there isn't much benefit to maximizing its Speed. Instead, the best strategy is to fully invest in Attack with an Adamant nature and rely on Aqua Jet to take down faster foes. 152 Speed EVs allow Feraligatr to beat Timid Omastar and Jolly Crawdaunt, but note that this is a common benchmark for Pokemon such as Hitmonchan and Uxie, as well as opposing Feraligatr, so throwing in a few extra Speed EVs might be worth your while. Invest the remaining EVs in HP to bolster Feraligatr's above-average bulk.</p>

<p>Feraligatr absolutely needs entry hazard support to sweep consistently. Rotom, Manectric, and Galvantula can survive a +2 Aqua Jet from full health and OHKO Feraligatr with their STAB Electric-type attacks, but a single round of Stealth Rock damage turns Aqua Jet into an OHKO on all of them. You will also need to eliminate the opponent's Grass-types before attempting to sweep. Sceptile is physically frail, so Feraligatr can deal with it reasonably well by hitting it with an unboosted Return for 70-80% on the switch, putting it in KO range for a +2 Aqua Jet later in the match. However, bulkier Grass-types, such as Tangrowth, Rotom-C, and Ferroseed, will have to be handled by Feraligatr's teammates. Entei can drive these Pokemon away with Flare Blitz, and Bouffalant can switch in on their STAB moves for a free Attack boost. Alternatively, you can use a lure such as Choice Specs Lanturn to draw in and OHKO Grass-types with Ice Beam or Hidden Power Fire. Once the entry hazards are set up and the Grass-types are out of the way, send Feraligatr in and enjoy the massacre.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Waterfall
move 3: Ice Punch
move 4: Earthquake / Crunch
item: Life Orb
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Dragon Dance sweepers are a rare sight in RU, primarily because all of the best Pokemon with access to such a powerful setup move are perched in higher tiers. For the most part, those that have fallen to RU are poor sweepers that lack sufficient power (Altaria and Dragonair), Speed (Crawdaunt and Shelgon), or both (Whiscash). Feraligatr is the exception to this rule; a single Dragon Dance gives it enough power to OHKO most offensive Pokemon and enough Speed to beat virtually every unboosted Pokemon in the tier. Unfortunately, a +1 Attack boost isn't enough for Feraligatr to break through RU's sturdiest walls, and most Choice Scarf users will outspeed it even after a Dragon Dance, so this Feraligatr is generally easier to stop than the Swords Dance variant. On the other hand, the Speed boost and additional coverage this set brings to the table help Feraligatr defeat some of its most common switch-ins, and it is still a capable sweeper, especially if it can grab a second boost.</p>

<p>Waterfall is the STAB move of choice thanks to its perfect accuracy, respectable Base Power, and handy flinch rate. Ice Punch covers Grass- and Dragon-types, allowing Feraligatr to beat some of the best counters to its Swords Dance set; after a Dragon Dance, Feraligatr outspeeds and OHKOes Sceptile, Lilligant, and Rotom-C with Ice Punch. In the last slot, Earthquake offers the best overall coverage, OHKOing Lanturn and Drapion, 2HKOing Qwilfish through Intimidate, and hitting Slowking, Poliwrath, and Ferroseed for neutral damage. However, Crunch is a notable alternative for extra power against Ghost- and Psychic-types such as Dusknoir, Slowking, and Uxie, which can ruin Feraligatr's sweep with paralysis or a burn.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A simple offensive EV spread is the way to go, but choosing the best nature is more difficult. Jolly Feraligatr reaches 420 Speed after a boost, putting it ahead of neutral-natured Choice Scarf users with base 90 Speed or less, such as Modest Moltres, Modest Rotom-C, and Adamant Medicham, as well as every unboosted Pokemon not named Accelgor or Ninjask. While that extra Speed can potentially save Feraligatr from being revenge killed, trying to figure out mid-battle which nature your opponent chose for his Choice Scarf Rotom-C is a dangerous game that you should avoid playing whenever possible. Opting for an Adamant nature sidesteps the guessing game entirely; you give up any shot at outspeeding most Choice Scarf users (and Aerodactyl), but the extra power nets some additional OHKOs against Pokemon that would barely survive a +1 attack from Jolly Feraligatr, including bulky Gallade, bulky Rotom-C, Scolipede, and Druddigon.</p>

<p>As was alluded to earlier, there are several Pokemon that can easily prevent Feraligatr from sweeping. Choice Scarf Electric-types are the quickest answer; Manectric, Galvantula, and Timid Rotom-C will always outspeed a boosted Feraligatr and can OHKO it with their STAB moves, although they can't safely switch into its attacks. A Ground-type such as Quagsire or Steelix can help shut them down. Poliwrath can take a hit and phaze Feraligatr with Circle Throw, while Quagsire ignores Feraligatr's boosts and can stall it out with Toxic and Recover, so a Grass-type attacking partner such as Sceptile or Rotom-C is a good teammate. Feraligatr also has no chance of getting past Tangrowth or Ferroseed on its own, so you would be wise to bring a powerful Fire-type, such as Entei or Moltres. Life Orb Manectric is a particularly nice partner for Feraligatr, as its Lightningrod ability allows it to switch in on Thunderbolt or Volt Switch for a free power boost, and it can take out Poliwrath, Quagsire, and Tangrowth with Thunderbolt, Hidden Power Grass, and Flamethrower, respectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Like any offensive Pokemon, Feraligatr can use Substitute to block status and set up in the face of defensive Pokemon such as Ferroseed and RestTalk Poliwrath. The problem is that the recoil damage from Substitute and Life Orb together cut Feraligatr's lifespan dramatically. Switching Feraligatr's item to Leftovers would help counteract Substitute's HP cost, but Feraligatr relies heavily on Life Orb for its KOs; without that extra power, it would rarely be able to sweep without gathering multiple boosts. Lum Berry is another option to protect Feraligatr from status, but Life Orb is simply more reliable if you want to sweep.</p>

<p>Aqua Tail is a slightly more powerful STAB attack, but Waterfall's perfect accuracy and useful flinch rate are hard to pass up. Superpower is Feraligatr's best option against Ferroseed, but its stat-reducing effect makes it a poor option on a boosting sweeper. Superpower would fit nicely on a Choice Band set, though, along with Waterfall, Aqua Jet, and Ice Punch or Crunch. Rock Slide and Dragon Claw round out Feraligatr's physical movepool, but they don't offer any significant additional coverage. If you're tired of Tangrowth ruining Feraligatr's sweeps, Ice Beam will always 2HKO it, even with a Special Attack-hindering nature. Venturing into the land of the insane, a Choice Specs set would be a fantastic lure for Tangrowth, and Choice Specs Hydro Pump is statistically Feraligatr's strongest viable unboosted attack thanks to its high Base Power. Feraligatr has the bulk and typing to be a passable defensive bulky Water-type, but its support movepool is limited to Toxic, Dragon Tail, and Roar, and it lacks the excellent secondary typing and ability that Pokemon such as Slowking, Qwilfish, Lanturn, and Quagsire enjoy. Stick to using Feraligatr as a deadly physical sweeper; anything else would be a waste.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Tangrowth is the ultimate answer to Feraligatr. Even a +1 Ice Punch will never 2HKO Tangrowth, whereas Tangrowth always OHKOes Feraligatr with Power Whip after Stealth Rock and Life Orb recoil, or 2HKOes with Giga Drain while recovering most of its HP. Quagsire ignores Feraligatr's boosts thanks to Unaware and takes a maximum of 39% from Waterfall, so it can easily stall Feraligatr out with Toxic and Recover. Ferroseed takes little from any of Feraligatr's attacks even after a boost, and it can cripple Dragon Dance sets with Thunder Wave while siphoning Feraligatr's HP with Leech Seed. Poliwrath is immune to Waterfall and resists Ice Punch and Crunch, so it can take a hit and phaze Feraligatr with Circle Throw. Faster Grass-types such as Sceptile, Lilligant, and Rotom-C are all good switch-ins to Swords Dance sets, while Choice Scarf users with super effective STAB attacks can take out Dragon Dance versions with ease.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Sheer Force will be an incredible upgrade; the 30% power boost to key attacks such as Waterfall, Ice Punch, and Crunch will make Feraligatr nearly impossible to wall. Unfortunately, this will probably result in Feraligatr being promoted to a higher tier, so enjoy Gatr Time while you can!</p>