[Overview]

<p>Despite being NFE, Fraxure is not a Pokemon to be taken lightly. Its stellar base 117 Attack, STAB Outrage, and access to the incredible boosting move Dragon Dance give it a spot among RU's biggest threats. BW2's move tutors were also extremely kind to Fraxure, supplementing its once limited coverage. Now, Fraxure can use Fighting- and Water-type attacks to break down the few RU tanks capable of surviving boosted Outrages. Although Druddigon's higher base Attack stat and better movepool might seem enticing, Fraxure's higher Speed, ability to hold Eviolite, and most importantly, access to Dragon Dance give Fraxure an edge over its Dragon-type competition. While a more offensive metagame has made setting up more difficult for the fairly frail Fraxure, once it has set up it can easily run through many teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance 
move 2: Outrage
move 3: Low Kick
move 4: Taunt
item: Eviolite / Life Orb
ability: Mold Breaker
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Fraxure acts as an excellent trump card for offensive teams. Dragon Dance boosts Fraxure's already great Attack stat to impressive levels, allowing it to reach 499 with a Jolly nature and a whopping 549 with an Adamant nature. Dragon Dance also patches up one of Fraxure's biggest weaknesses in terms of sweeping: its Speed stat. After a Dragon Dance, Fraxure reaches 349 with an Adamant nature, enough to outpace Jolly Durant, and 384 with a Jolly nature, more than Jolly Swellow. Outrage packs a ton of power and allows Fraxure to weaken offensive and defensive teams alike. Low Kick grants Fraxure much needed coverage, allowing Fraxure to 2HKO standard Steelix and OHKO Aggron, regardless of Fraxure's choice of item or nature. Taunt allows Fraxure to boost in the face of opponents such as Tangrowth, Clefable, and Roselia, as well as preventing phazing and setup attempts.</p>

<p>While Fraxure is always a force to be reckoned with, the choice of item and nature will greatly impact what Fraxure can and cannot do. Eviolite is the safer item choice in such an offensive metagame, protecting Fraxure from revenge killing attempts and allowing it to set up more easily. Life Orb gives Fraxure quite a power boost, but at the cost of being more prone to unresisted attacks. A Jolly nature greatly reduces the amount of Pokemon able to revenge kill Fraxure after a boost, while an Adamant nature gives it 10% harder hitting attacks in exchange for being vulnerable to Pokemon such as Archeops, Sceptile, and Swellow. Generally, a Jolly nature with Eviolite is recommended, though teams in need of a potent stallbreaker could consider mixing and matching natures and items as they see fit.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Despite Taunt's utility against more defensive teams, there are multiple other options that can be considered for Fraxure's set. Dragon Claw provides Fraxure with a STAB move without the disadvantage of being locked into Outrage. Dual Chop packs the same power and allows Fraxure to break Focus Sashes and Substitutes at the cost of slightly lower accuracy. Aqua Tail allows Fraxure to hit Pokemon such as Golurk and Rhydon harder, but they are threatened by Outrage or Low Kick anyway. As an alternative Fighting-type attack, Superpower can be used in place of Low Kick for a stronger hit on Escavalier, Durant, and Ferroseed, but it is generally better to use Fraxure's teammates to weaken these Pokemon to the point that Fraxure can sweep. Finally, Substitute can be used to protect Fraxure further against status and revenge killers like Entei and especially Ditto, which could otherwise steal Fraxure's boosts and reverse its sweep.</p>

<p>Entry hazards greatly aid Fraxure in breaking down its sturdiest counters. Stealth Rock and Spikes limit the amount of times Tangrowth, Steelix, Escavalier, and Ferroseed can withstand Fraxure's powerful attacks. Smeargle gets a special mention for its ability to set up both Stealth Rock and Spikes while easily fitting into the more offensive teams where Fraxure belongs. Qwilfish, though more defensive in nature, can set up Spikes and spread paralysis for Fraxure, and is also capable of switching into both Ice-type attacks and threats such as ExtremeSpeed Entei that wish to revenge kill Fraxure.</p>

<p>Dragon Dance Fraxure also appreciates powerful wallbreakers to aid in its sweep. Gallade is one of the best in tier, being able to break down many common defensive cores with Swords Dance-boosted attacks and great coverage. In fact, Swords Dance Gallade is one of Fraxure's best partners overall, as almost nothing in RU can withstand their onslaught. Moltres and Magmortar are in a similar position, using powerful special attacks to weaken the opposition into Fraxure's KO range. In return, Fraxure can use its resistance to Water-type attacks to set up on the bulky Water-types that often try to wall Magmortar and Moltres.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Outside of Dragon Dance, Fraxure's options are somewhat limited. Night Slash and X-Scissor could be used as coverage moves, but most of the targets they attempt to cover are hit harder by Outrage. Fraxure can utilize the famed RestTalk combination in conjunction with Eviolite to avoid status and boost with Dragon Dance even while asleep. However, such a set faces extreme competition from Altaria and even Shelgon, and would be unlikely to succeed in RU's more offensive metagame. Fraxure does have access to Swords Dance, which could be used alongside Dragon Dance to allow Fraxure to pick which boost it needs to sweep. However, the utility of Taunt and consistency of Dragon Dance usually overshadow the sheer power that comes with Swords Dance. Perhaps Fraxure's most viable option not touched on above is its Choice Band set. With a Choice Band attached, Fraxure becomes even more immediately threatening to counters such as Steelix, Escavalier, and Ferroseed. It also allows Fraxure to use Superpower more consistently as it plays as more of a hit-and-run attacker. However, the inability of Choice Band Fraxure to boost its Speed as well as its lower defensive capabilities without Eviolite will prevent it from doing much against an offensive team.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>There are a few Pokemon in RU capable of standing up to Fraxure. Escavalier is likely the safest bet. It resists Outrage, takes little damage from Low Kick, and can strike back with its powerful Megahorn. Ferroseed is in a similar position, but needs Gyro Ball to avoid being setup bait for any Fraxure carrying Taunt and must also watch out for the uncommon Superpower. Tangrowth can check Fraxure well despite not resisting Outrage. Although it risks a 2HKO from +1 Life Orb Outrage after Stealth Rock, it checks the Eviolite set well if it carries Hidden Power Ice. Unfortunately, Leech Seed and Sleep Powder are inconsistent ways to deal with Fraxure because of Taunt. For more offensive teams, often the best way to deal with Fraxure is to avoid letting it set up and hit it with powerful attacks. Even if Fraxure does manage to snag a Dragon Dance, all is not lost. Fraxure is still fairly frail even with an Eviolite boost, allowing powerful priority, such as ExtremeSpeed from Choice Band Entei, to hit Fraxure hard. Most Choice Scarf users can easily outpace Fraxure due to its low Speed, so powerful users of the item such as Manectric and Typhlosion can take out Fraxure if needed, although it should be noted that Fraxure needs to be significantly weakened for it to be in the KO range of the latter two, as Fraxure resists both of their STAB moves.</p>