[Overview]

<p>It has been said that you can't judge a book by its cover, but Galvantula didn't seem to get the memo, because what you see is what you get with this electrifying arachnid. Sporting good Special Attack and Speed stats backed by a unique dual STAB, Galvantula is a potent special attacker. This potential is further reinforced by its ability, Compoundeyes, which grants it a dangerous 91% accurate Thunder. However, not unlike the itsy bitsy spider, Galvantula is as dainty as they come, failing to shrug off even resisted hits. A weakness to Stealth Rock compounds this, often forcing it under the rug for more self-sufficient Pokemon like Manectric. While there's no denying this voltaic spider's potential, it needs proper support to truly shine.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Thunder 
move 2: Bug Buzz
move 3: Hidden Power Ground 
move 4: Giga Drain / Volt Switch
item: Life Orb / Choice Specs
ability: Compoundeyes
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Galvantula's excellent coverage, great Speed, and good Special Attack makes it adept at sweeping through weakened teams. Thunder provides an excellent primary STAB move, hitting everything that doesn't resist it hard. The 30% chance of paralysis is also very important, deterring faster Pokemon like Sceptile from switching into a resisted hit. Bug Buzz acts as potent secondary STAB attack, hitting Grass-types that resist Thunder. Hidden Power Ground rounds off Galvantula's coverage, punishing Steelix, while also hitting opposing Electric-types that try to switch in on Thunder for super effective damage. Giga Drain allows Galvantula to recover damage from Life Orb and entry hazards, while also hitting Pokemon such as Lanturn and Golurk harder than any of Galvantula's alternative moves. On the other hand, Volt Switch allows Galvantula to hit the opponent while maintaining offensive momentum, which can help wear down defensive checks such as Clefable and Roselia.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Timid nature is invaluable for this set to outspeed dangerous Pokemon such as Typhlosion and Manetric. Life Orb is usually the most useful item, as the ability to switch moves helps Galvantula more effectively sweep late-game. However, Choice Specs provides Galvantula with the extra power to effectively break through Pokemon such as Clefable and Cryogonal. As Galvantula is susceptible to being revenge killed, Substitute can be used to keep it in more safely. This makes Galvantula able to threaten Pokemon such as Choice Band Entei and Spiritomb who would otherwise keep Galvantula in check with their powerful priority attacks. Considering Galvantula's excellent super effective coverage, an Expert Belt can be used as an alternative item.</p>

<p>Galvantula's weakness to both Stealth Rock and Spikes is debilitating, so a spinner greatly benefits it. Kabutops makes an excellent choice, not only spinning away hazards, but also resisting Fire-type attacks aimed at Galvantula and in turn luring Grass-types that Galvantula can threaten. Conversely, Galvantula thoroughly appreciates Stealth Rock and Spikes to net valuable KOes on Pokemon such as Druddigon, Ferroseed, and Cryogonal. Smeargle is a very capable partner for quickly and efficiently laying entry hazards, while Pokemon such as Qwilfish can set up hazards on the Fire- and Rock-type attacks targeting Galvantula. Moreover, because Galvantula naturally struggles with dedicated special walls, Pokemon such as Gallade and Choice Band Spiritomb can threaten the majority of such walls and thus are good partners as well.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>While Choice Scarf is a tempting option for Galvantula, in reality, it is sorely outclassed by Manectric, which sports a Stealth Rock neutrality and Switcheroo to cripple walls. Aside from Hidden Power Ground, Galvantula can also utilize a few other Hidden Power types. Hidden Power Fire hits Pokemon such as Escavalier and Ferroseed harder than any other move in its arsenal, whereas Hidden Power Ice enables it to hit Ground- and Flying-types in a single move, although their use doesn't go much further than that. Charge Beam is somewhat usable, boosting Galvantula's Special Attack stat to break through walls, although it is often better off firing off more powerful attacks, and its frailty prevents it from setting up easily. Electro Ball has interesting applications, but the fact of the matter is that there is almost never a situation in which Galvantula is so much faster than a foe that Thunder is dwarfed in power.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Dedicated special walls, such as Clefable, Cryogonal, and Roselia, are the best to handle Galvantula, switching into any of its attacks without too much trouble. However, Cryogonal's Stealth Rock weakness somewhat limits its ability to do so, especially when switching into a Volt Switch and being threatened out by a strong physical attacker. Lanturn, Ferroseed, and Druddigon are all capable of shrugging off Galvantula's attacks, while in turn crippling it with paralysis. Steelix, despite being 2HKOed by Hidden Power Ground, can switch into any other attack and threaten Galvantula with its STAB attacks. Priority attacks plague Galvantula's existence, with Choice Band user's attacks, such as Entei's ExtremeSpeed and Spiritomb's Sucker Punch, quickly threatening Galvantula. Similarly, faster Pokemon such as Sceptile and Aerodactyl are capable of outspeeding Galvantula and promptly taking it out, although they must be wary while switching in.</p>