[Overview]

<p>Garbodor is another variation of the standard "bulky Poison-type". What makes Garbodor so great defensively is the fact that it only has two weaknesses, Psychic and Ground. In addition, Garbodor has the ability to set up both Spikes and Toxic Spikes, as well as absorbing Toxic Spikes upon entry. Garbodor's stats are all above average, but unfortunately its movepool is only subpar, which limits its effectiveness. Garbodor has a very limited offensive movepool; it lacks any form of reliable recovery, and because its Speed is nothing spectacutar, lack of a priority move can leave it helpless against a lot of Pokemon in the tier. Garbodor is inferior to most other Poison-types in the game, but if you take advantage of its decent defensive stats and great typing, it will not disappoint.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Toxic Spikes
move 2: Spikes / Haze
move 3: Gunk Shot
move 4: Payback / Body Slam
item: Black Sludge
ability: Aftermath
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set uses Garbodor's great defensive typing and decent defenses to set up entry hazards for your team. Thanks to its typing, Garbodor can set up on a variety of Pokemon, namely Grass-types such as Sceptile, Lilligant, and Sawsbuck. Garbodor can also set up on weaker walls such as Uxie and Clefable as they have little offensive power. It should be noted that Haze and Spikes are illegal together, so it's down to personal preference whether you choose an extra set of hazards, or the ability to erase stat boosts. Gunk Shot is Garbodor's most powerful STAB move, and it will leave dents in anything that doesn't resist it. Again, the last slot is down to personal preference; Payback can take advantage of Garbodor's below average Speed and hits Psychic-types for super effective damage, while Body Slam can be used to abuse paralysis. Aftermath is the chosen ability because the added residual damage when Garbodor goes down can really come in handy, Stench doesn't activate enough to make it useful, and Weak Armor is more of a liability due its Defense-lowering side effect.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Garbodor may use an Air Balloon to avoid Ground-type moves, but if it gets hit by anything else, the Balloon will burst. Rest can be used along with a Chesto Berry to restore Garbodor's health, while a Chesto Berry allows it to take on Lilligant without fearing Sleep Powder. Rock Blast can be used to break Substitutes and hit Flying-types, but note that it's illegal with Haze. Clear Smog is an alternative move to erase stat changes; however, Clear Smog cannot hit Steel-types such as Shift Gear Klinklang, nor does it work if the opponent has a Substitute up.</p>

<p>A Ghost-type, such as Rotom or Dusknoir, is an excellent choice of teammate to block Rapid Spin and ensure entry hazards are kept on the field. Phazers are also handy to rack up damage from entry hazards. Mandibuzz can abuse Whirlwind with its great defenses and Roost, Throh can use STAB Circle Throw, and Steelix can use Roar and Dragon Tail. On another note, Wish support is extremely helpful due to Garbodor's lack of recovery; this can be provided by Clefable due to its massive HP and great support movepool.</p>

<p>Pokemon who can deal with Ground- and Psychic-types are great partners. Water-types such as Slowking and Poliwrath are good options; Slowking can be used defensively with Slack Off, while Poliwrath can play offensively with Waterfall and Focus Punch. Grass-types such as Lilligant and Tangrowth can also hit Ground-types with their powerful STAB moves. Drapion and Spiritomb are two excellent choices to break through Psychic-types, especially with Spiritomb's priority on Sucker Punch, and Drapion's powerful Crunch.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Similarly to Muk, Garbodor has access to Curse, but unfortunately it doesn't have any priority to counteract the Speed drop. Garbodor's physical movepool is pretty bad as well; however, Garbodor does have access to Gunk Shot, Explosion, and Payback. Stockpile can be used to raise Garbodor's defenses, and Swallow is available for recovery, but this is risky, and usually too difficult to be used consistently. Rock Polish is another option, but isn't very effective due to Garbodor's poor movepool and only average attacking stats. Garbodor has a surprisingly good special movepool including attacks such as Thunderbolt, Focus Blast, and Sludge Bomb, but unfortunately, it won't be dealing enough damage coming from a base 60 Special Attack. Finally, Garbodor's decent typing and good defenses means it can support its team in the form of Rain Dance or Sunny Day, but this is better left to Pokemon such as Uxie.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The biggest problem Garbodor faces are Steel-types. Steel-types are immune to Poison-type attacks, and unfortunately Garbodor doesn't have anything else to hit them with. Steelix is probably the best overall counter as it has an immunity to Poison, and can immediately threaten Garbodor with its STAB Earthquake. Aggron is on a similar boat, as it can switch into Garbodor with ease, proceed to set up with Autotomize, and threaten your entire team with its STAB moves. Ground-types such as Rhydon take little from Garbodor's STAB, while STAB Earthquake makes quick work of it. Taunt users will beat most sets, as Garbodor isn't useful for much besides setting hazards. Almost anything that can survive Gunk Shot and hit Garbodor super effectively can be called a check; Garbodor isn't difficult to beat.</p>