[Overview]

<p>Glalie is a Pokemon that just seems to ooze mediocrity. Its average base stats, somewhat sparse movepool, and generic Ice typing aren't doing it many favors, and give it a lot of trouble. However, Glalie possesses two characteristics that allow it to function in the RU metagame: Spikes and Ice Body. Collectively, these traits make Glalie one of the few viable Spikes users on hail teams, being capable of healing itself passively while providing entry hazard support, as well as capitalizing on the accurate Blizzards that hail allows for. Even so, Glalie still faces serious competition from Pokemon such as Qwilfish, which offers better overall synergy with hail-based Pokemon, leaving it the better choice on only the most offensively paced of hail teams. While Glalie certainly isn't suited for every team, it is a useful Pokemon for strictly offensive hail teams where it can play to its strengths.</p>

[SET]
name: Spikes
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Blizzard
move 3: Taunt
move 4: Super Fang / Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Ice Body
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Glalie's best bet at usefulness in RU is with a Spikes set. Thanks to its moderate bulk and reasonable Speed, Glalie is capable of finding a reasonable amount of free turns to set up Spikes. Glalie's Blizzard, while not hitting as hard as Glaceon's or other such powerful Ice-types, still remains moderately powerful and allows Glalie to soften up Ice-type resistances for more dedicated hail sweepers to better push through. Taunt is invaluable, as it prevents opponents from setting up and Pokemon such as Cryogonal and Slowking recovering off residual damage, as well as allowing Glalie to effectively shut down Smeargle. Super Fang allows Glalie to cleave bulky Pokemon such as Escavalier's HP in half so that they can't take powerful Blizzards from teammates as effectively. On the other hand, Toxic allows Glalie to cripple common Ice-type resistances such as Slowking and Cryogonal, wearing them down alongside Taunt.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Glalie can run a more offensive spread, utilizing an alternative attacking move such as Hidden Power Fire or Rock, which would allow it to more immediately pressure certain Pokemon, such as Escavalier and Cryogonal, though this in turn gives Glalie fewer opportunities to set up Spikes. Protect can be used to gain another turn of Leftovers and Ice Body recovery and scout Choice users, though Glalie has difficulty finding room for it. Substitute is a viable option over Taunt, allowing Glalie to more comfortably take on Pokemon such as Slowking if it is running Toxic while also ensuring it isn't forced out as easily, though losing the ability to stop recovery moves and opposing setup hurts. When using Substitute, a spread of 236 HP / 20 SpD / 252 Spe is more reliable overall, guaranteeing that Glalie can set up a Substitute freely every other turn.</p>

<p>In terms of partners, Snover and a powerful Ice-type such as Choice Scarf Glaceon or Rotom-F are basically mandatory, with the former providing the hail Glalie needs and the latter taking advantage of the entry hazards it provides in order to sweep. Rapid Spin support is much appreciated in order to preserve Glalie's HP, and Kabutops is the man for the job, offering a reasonable buffer against Fire-type attacks while maintaining offensive momentum. Golurk is a useful partner, providing continued offensive pressure, a fall-back against Rock- and Fighting-type attacks, and Stealth Rock all in one. Choice Band Spiritomb also makes for a solid partner, answering to Fighting-types rather well and Pursuit trapping dedicated special walls to allow for easier Blizzard spamming while also preventing Rapid Spin.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A suicide lead set can be utilized to decent effect considering Glalie has access to Taunt, Spikes, and even Explosion for avoiding Rapid Spin, as well as enough Speed to outpace Smeargle, though it faces direct competition from the more flexible, slightly faster Qwilfish. Disable is an interesting option and could be used alongside Substitute moderately well, though Glalie faces a lot of competition from the more well-rounded Walrein as a defensive hail Pokemon. Ice Shard offers Glalie STAB priority, though it is moderately weak overall. Fake Tears can be utilized to force out slower switch-ins with the prospect of a powerful Blizzard, though Glalie faces immediate competition from Glaceon in this respect. Block can be utilized alongside Toxic in order to rack up damage on Pokemon such as Slowking and Cryogonal, though this means either dropping Blizzard, leaving it vulnerable to anything and everything immune to Toxic, or Spikes, outright erasing its main niche in the tier. Finally, a Substitute + Protect stalling set can be used along with Toxic and Blizzard. The main advantage Glalie has here as a SubProtect user is its relatively high Speed, letting it possibly stall out neutral natured threats like Gallade.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Countering Glalie is somewhat of an odd task, as its primary goal is to wear down certain Pokemon in any way possible for a partner to sweep. Cryogonal is the most lasting "counter" to Glalie, being capable of taking repeated Blizzards without much trouble and spinning away its entry hazards, though it does need to be cautious of Toxic variants that are capable of stalling it out with Taunt. Kabutops, unlike Cryogonal, can both spin away Glalie's Spikes and threaten it with a powerful Stone Edge and switches in with little trouble. Hitmonchan and Hitmonlee are both similar cases, though their inability to effectively take on Ghost-types and neutrality to Blizzard somewhat inhibits them. Steel-types such as Klinklang and Rock Polish Aggron can force Glalie out with their powerful attacks and in turn set up safely. Escavalier can switch into to all but Super Fang safely and proceed to threaten Glalie with either Megahorn or Iron Head while also being immune to hail damage. Powerful Fire-types such as Entei and Emboar can switch into Glalie with impunity and threaten it with their powerful STAB attacks, either KOing it or forcing it to switch out and take further entry hazard damage upon switching back in.</p>