[Overview]

<p>Grumpig is a bulky little piggy; its defenses are solid, and its HP is decent as well. In addition, Grumpig's Speed and Special Attack are above average, and it has some good support moves to boot. Taunt, Thunder Wave, Heal Bell, and Magic Coat make Grumpig an excellent team supporter, and a pain to take down. Unfortunately, Grumpig doesn't have access to a reliable recovery move outside of Rest, and its Defense isn't great, leaving it vulnerable to priority moves such as Sucker Punch and Shadow Sneak. Thick Fat makes it easier for Grumpig to take on the likes of Moltres, Typhlosion, and Charizard, making a decent tank for your team. Finally, what sets Grumpig apart from Uxie is its superior movepool, higher Special Attack, and cuter aesthetics. If you're looking for something new, give Grumpig a chance, and it won't disappoint.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Heal Bell
move 2: Thunder Wave
move 3: Taunt / Reflect / Focus Blast
move 4: Psychic 
item: Leftovers
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Grumpig's impressive bulk, great support moves, Thick Fat ability, and lack of weaknesses make it an ideal team supporter. The idea is to switch into a weak defensive Pokemon, such as Uxie, and proceed to support your teammates with paralysis, screen, or cleric support. Heal Bell ensures that Grumpig and its teammates remain healthy, Thunder Wave can cripple dangerous switch-ins, and Psychic gives Grumpig something to do should it be the last Pokemon on your team. The third slot is slightly more complicated; Taunt is used to stop Pokemon like Ferroseed from setting up, Reflect helps patch up Grumpig's average Defense, and Focus Blast provides additional coverage against Steel- and Dark-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are pretty self-explanatory; maximum HP and Special Defense emphasize on Grumpig's great bulk, while the remaining EVs give it an extra point in Defense. You may run more Defense EVs if you're afraid of physical attacks, but then Grumpig loses utility as a special wall. Rest can be used with a Chesto Berry to combat Grumpig's lack of recovery; however, note that it's a single-use item. Signal Beam can be used in the last slot if you prefer extra coverage against other Psychic-types, but the lack of STAB makes it an inferior option.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, Grumpig lacks any form of recovery outside of Rest, which makes Wish support very helpful. Leafeon can play as an offensive supporter, while Clefable can act as a cleric or Calm Mind booster. Clefable also appreciates Grumpig as a teammate as it resists Fighting-type moves. Pokemon that can switch into Grumpig's weaknesses are helpful; Steel-types, such as Aggron, are good as they resist Dark- and Ghost-type moves and pose as a decent offensive threat. Steelix is a more defensive option; not only does it resist Grumpig's weaknesses and vice versa, it can provide Stealth Rock. Absol and Spiritomb can take on Ghost-types with Sucker Punch, while Charizard can blast its way through opposing Steel- and Bug-types that get in its way.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Psychic 
move 4: Taunt / Heal Bell / Thunder Wave 
item: Light Clay 
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>There are a few things that make Grumpig such a good dual screener. Grumpig's above average Speed means it can set up before slower Pokemon in the tier, and reduce damage from their attacks. Furthermore, Grumpig's decent defenses, good typing, and Thick Fat ability means it'll take little damage from any unboosted attack, which gives it many opportunities to set up. Psychic gives Grumpig something to do in case it gets Taunted, and it deals a reasonable amount of damage with the STAB boost. Taunt can stop a slower opponent setting up, Heal Bell keeps Grumpig and its teammates healthy, and Thunder Wave can cripple faster, more dangerous threats. Light Clay is the only item this set should be using, as it ensures the screens are active as long as possible.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are simple; make the most of Grumpig's high Special Defense and HP stats, while placing the leftover EVs in Defense. If you prefer a faster piggy, a Timid nature can be used with a spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe, allowing Grumpig to outrun anything up to positive base 80 Speed Pokemon. Grumpig doesn't have to run an attacking move on this set at all; since Grumpig isn't investing in Special Attack, Psychic will be incredibly weak anyway, and another supportive option becomes viable.</p>

<p>Support from Wish is helpful, as Grumpig was cursed with but a single recovery move: Rest. Leafeon and Clefable are both viable Wish supporters, and they also have access to Heal Bell, keeping Grumpig and its teammates healthy. Pokemon that can set up behind Grumpig's screens are mandatory, making Pokemon such as Dragon Dance Fraxure, Swords Dance Feraligatr, and Autotomize Aggron fine teammates. Finally, Pokemon that can switch into Grumpig's weaknesses are recommended to keep it alive longer. Steel-types are particularly good as they resist Dark- and Ghost-types, not to mention their high defensive stats and usable movepools. Ferroseed is an excellent example; behind dual screens, Ferroseed is almost unstoppable at what it does, and it gains the ability to set up numerous layers of hazards.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>To remedy its lack of recovery, Grumpig can opt to use a RestTalk set, but due to this generation's sleep mechanics, it's unreliable. An offensive set can be used with Charge Beam, Power Gem, Grass Knot, or Energy Ball, but it's largely outclassed by Kadabra and Uxie. Mirror Coat is a nasty surprise for special attackers, but it requires top notch prediction to be effective. Magic Coat can block status moves and Leech Seed, but it isn't that useful when Grumpig can just Taunt the opponent. Grumpig can support its teammates with Rain Dance, but Pokemon such as Ludicolo, Uxie, and Rotom do this better. Whirlwind can be used in conjunction with entry hazards, and it's certainly viable with Grumpig's bulk. Finally, Grumpig can use Trick Room to support its slower teammates, and it can shut down opposing walls with Trick.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to its lackluster offensive stats, almost anything with decent Special Defense can take it on. Aggron can beat sets that lack a Fighting-type move, just watch out for Thunder Wave, as it can ruin Autotomize sets. Rotom can switch into a Focus Blast or a non-attacking move and hit Grumpig with Shadow Ball, but Thunder Wave will cripple it. Uxie takes little damage from any of Grumpig's attacks, but really doesn't have the offensive power to KO Grumpig, and is forced to rely on moves such as Toxic. Thanks to its high Special Defense, Clefable can wall Grumpig all day. Furthermore, Clefable has access to Wish to support its teammates, and Seismic Toss will make short work of Grumpig. Ludicolo is a strange counter, but thanks to its good defenses, access to Leech Seed, and great defensive typing, it can take on Grumpig with little trouble. Spiritomb and Dusknoir can switch into Grumpig, threaten it with Shadow Sneak, and restore their health with their recovery moves. Crawdaunt, Drapion, and Mandibuzz are immune to Psychic-type moves, their STAB moves will swiftly KO Grumpig, and the latter even has access to Roost. Grumpig is shut down by Taunt most of the time, so it must rely on its lack of offensive moves. Grumpig also lacks any form of recovery outside of Rest, so smack it around a few times and it shouldn't be difficult to remove.</p>