[Overview]

<p>Hariyama is a tough threat to deal with, as its combination of base 120 Attack, Guts, and good coverage make it very difficult to switch into. Hariyama excels at wearing down foes, and it is one of the only Fighting-types in RU that can consistently wear down Psychic-types such as Slowking and Uxie. This is especially useful for aiding teammates on an offensive team as Hariyama will enable them to clean up the opposing team with ease. Hariyama will usually be unable to sweep on its own as it has a pitiful base 50 Speed and will be worn down easily from its status Orb, but its ability to break walls makes up for it. Often overlooked is its base 144 HP and Thick Fat ability, which allow Hariyama to successfully run a defensive set to wall and phaze common threats such as Typhlosion, Magmortar, and even Kabutops. Overall, Hariyama can be used as a powerful attacker or defensive phazer, but play carefully around the offensive set, since even though it can be worn down easily, it will leave a dent.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Close Combat
move 2: Facade
move 3: Fake Out
move 4: Stone Edge / Bullet Punch 
item: Toxic Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 172 Def / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Hariyama's Attack goes through the roof with a Guts boost. It should usually be sent in after a teammate faints or on a predicted Toxic, as this set doesn't have the longevity of a bulkier set. Fake Out should usually be used right off the bat if Hariyama is not inflicted with a status condition, as this will allow Toxic Orb to activate safely. There are certain cases in which Fake Out should not be used, such as when the opponent has a solid switch-in like Sigilyph. Using Fake Out will give them a free switch in, so it would be better to use something like Close Combat or Stone Edge if you are predicting a switch. Being reckless with Fake Out will result in a weakened Hariyama. After Toxic Orb is activated, Hariyama will be used to wear down opposing Psychic-types and other walls for a teammate, usually another Fighting-type, as it can put them in KO range. This set should be used as a wallbreaker rather than a sweeper, as it doesn't have enough Speed to sweep through a team. Close Combat is the most powerful move on this set, even 2HKOing defensive Tangrowth after Stealth Rock with the Guts boost. Facade is very useful for Pokemon that resist Fighting, mainly Amoonguss, Slowking, and Uxie, who all get 2HKOed after Stealth Rock. Stone Edge is used for Ghost-types, such as Rotom, and Flying-type switch-ins like Sigilyph and Moltres. However, Bullet Punch is useful for revenge killing foes such as Cinccino, Sceptile, and Lilligant, and it forms a good double priority strategy with Fake Out.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Toxic Orb is preferred over Flame Orb as Hariyama won't usually be staying on the field for more than three turns, which is how long it takes for Toxic Orb to out-damage Flame Orb. The Speed EVs allow Hariyama to outspeed Clefable and uninvested Tangrowth, and the Defense EVs are used to make the most of Hariyama's Bug-, Dark-, and Rock-type resistances since most attacks of these types are physical. However, you can shift the EVs to Special Defense depending on which Pokemon you want Hariyama to face off against. In the fourth moveslot, Hariyama can use Earthquake to 2HKO Qwilfish and have a more reliable move to hit Spiritomb, which can increase the chance of a teammate's sweep. Ice Punch can be used to hit Golurk, which otherwise completely walls this set. Otherwise, the elemental punches aren't all that useful since Hariyama will still be getting 2HKOes with Close Combat or Facade.</p>

<p>Fighting-type partners, such as Medicham, Gallade, and Hitmonlee, enjoy Hariyama's ability to lure in and weaken Psychic- and Ghost-types with Facade and Stone Edge. A Fighting-type duo with Hariyama will be sure to put a lot of pressure on the opponent. Hariyama will have to be careful of being revenge killed by faster Psychic-types like Sigilyph, so a teammate such as Spiritomb is appreciated. Spiritomb is also a good teammate because it provides Pursuit support; Hariyama greatly benefits from the removal of Ghost-types. Paralysis support is also useful for Hariyama, as it won't have to rely on its Speed as often. Uxie is great for this, as it can spread paralysis, set up Stealth Rock, and get Hariyama in safely with U-turn. Hariyama will usually get opportunities to switch in on defensive Pokemon like Clefable and Ferroseed, so something to lure them in such as Rotom-C or Kabutops will work well.</p>

[SET]
name: RestTalk
move 1: Whirlwind
move 2: Force Palm 
move 3: Rest
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Leftovers
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Careful
evs: 12 HP / 244 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses more on team support and prolonging Hariyama's longevity. Whirlwind allows Hariyama to function as a reliable phazer, racking up hazard damage on the opponent. Force Palm is a STAB move that also has a high chance of paralysis. This deters Pokemon like Sigilyph and Moltres from switching in directly because they do not want to risk getting paralyzed and losing a good deal of effectiveness. Rest keeps Hariyama healthy, allowing it to tank multiple hits from moderately powerful attackers such as Manectric. Sleep Talk prevents Hariyama from being dead weight while asleep and can bypass Whirlwind's negative priority, but does have a risk factor to it. In addition to team support and prolonging longevity, this set also takes advantage of Hariyama's good bulk. This set helps Hariyama check threats such as Typhlosion, Magmortar, and Cryogonal.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs provide Hariyama with a Leftovers number while maximizing its bulk. Since this set is being used primarily as a phazer, it is recommended that you use hazards alongside it. Without them, this set loses a lot of its merit. When being used in conjunction with Toxic Spikes, Brick Break is a better option due to higher Base Power. Steelix and Omastar resist the Flying-type attacks aimed at Hariyama while being able to set up Stealth Rock (and Spikes in Omastar's case). Ferroseed is able to set hazards as well and has enough bulk to switch into most Flying-type attacks. Ferroseed also appreciates having Hariyama sponge Fire-type attacks to help cover its 4x weakness. Paralysis support via Force Palm makes slower offensive teammates, such as Choice Band Druddigon or Aggron, more useful, as scoring a paralysis against faster Pokemon such as Moltres or Qwilfish gives them an easier time. Cleric support from Pokemon such as Lanturn, Clefable, or Uxie is also very useful because they can use Heal Bell to cure Hariyama's status should it be forced out by a powerful attacker while asleep.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A SubPunch set is possible for Hariyama to use, but Hariyama has difficulties maintaining a Substitute because of the powerful special attackers, such as Moltres and Sigilyph, found in RU. Hariyama has access to Bulk Up, but is not recommended, as Hariyama is too slow and has trouble finding time to pull it off. A set based around Hariyama's Dream World ability, Sheer Force, using Rock Slide, the elemental punches, or Iron Head has merit, but is outclassed by the status Orb set. A Choice Band set is always plausible, but only hits as hard as the status Orb set without giving Hariyama the freedom to switch moves. Life Orb is a viable alternative to Toxic Orb, as it prevents Protect users such as Alomomola from letting Hariyama die from residual damage.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The offensive set will be worn down easily by Toxic damage and common attacks. The best thing to do if you're facing it and dealing with other strong physical attackers is to try to keep a Psychic-type such as Slowking healthy, and wear Hariyama down by picking switch-ins that resist its moves instead. Rotom is immune to 3/4 of the offensive set's moves, and can stall it out with Substitute or finish it off with Thunderbolt. Alomomola can also let Hariyama kill itself off by using a combination of Wish + Protect. This may not work for offensive teams, however, so sacrificing something that you don't really need, such as a weakened lead Smeargle, then sending in an appropriate revenge killer will work. Moltres, Sigilyph, Braviary, and Mesprit can all work, as they can hit Hariyama super effectively or force a switch. Bulkier Pokemon such as Slowking, Uxie, and Misdreavus can also work, but they will lose quite a bit of HP in the process of checking Hariyama. Bulky Psychic- and Ghost-types work better when dealing with the RestTalk set.</p>