[Overview]

<p>Hypno has always struggled to find a place on competitive teams, and that struggle continues this generation. There is certainly no shortage of Psychic-type support Pokemon, many with better stats and movepools, leaving Hypno stuck in the shadows once again. Even in RU, Hypno must compete with Pokemon such as Uxie and Slowking, who boast superior defenses, consistently useful abilities, and wider movepools. Luckily, Hypno does have a few exclusive tricks up its snout that keep it from falling into complete obscurity. Wish is foremost among them, as restoring an injured teammate's HP is a valuable service that Uxie and Slowking cannot provide, and Hypno is actually one of the most dependable Wish passers in RU. Baton Passing Nasty Plot boosts is another rare skill Hypno possesses, although it faces some competition in this role from the frailer but faster Volbeat and Mr. Mime. Finally, Insomnia is a cool ability that sets Hypno apart; it may not be as consistently useful as Regenerator or Levitate, but it does make Hypno one of the safest possible switch-ins to Lilligant. Hypno will never be a dominating force in RU, but its unique perks do enough to keep it from being outclassed.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Wish
move 2: Protect
move 3: Thunder Wave / Toxic
move 4: Seismic Toss
item: Leftovers
ability: Insomnia
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unless you count Eviolite Lickitung (which you shouldn't), Hypno is the most specially bulky Wish user in RU. It also possesses decent physical bulk, and unlike Clefable and other Normal-type Wish users, Hypno has a useful resistance to Fighting that allows it to actually tank a Close Combat or Hi Jump Kick, rather than flee in terror. This means Hypno has a relatively easy time switching in, using Wish, and either switching back out to heal a teammate or staying in to spread status and wall an opponent. By alternating between Wish and Protect, Hypno can comfortably stall out any special attacker that lacks a super effective STAB attack, including powerful Choice Specs users such as Moltres and Sceptile. When it gets the chance, Hypno can use Thunder Wave or Toxic to cripple a foe. Toxic works especially well with Wish and Protect, but Thunder Wave is more useful for checking fast attackers in general. Seismic Toss is Hypno's best attacking option, as it allows Hypno to break Substitutes and deal consistent damage without being forced to use its abysmal offensive stats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Psychic is an option over Seismic Toss to prevent Ghost-types from setting up freely on Hypno, but then Dark-types set up for free instead, and very few Pokemon will take more than 100 damage from Psychic. Some EVs can be moved into Defense to take on Fighting-types more effectively, but focusing on Hypno's excellent Special Defense is usually the better choice.</p>

<p>This set belongs on a balanced or defensive team that can cover Hypno's weaknesses and handle the Pokemon that can set up on it. Physical walls that lack their own recovery, such as Steelix and Rhydon, make good partners for Hypno; they greatly appreciate Wish support, and they can use Roar or Haze to erase any boosts an opposing Pokemon may have set up. A Pursuit user such as Drapion or Spiritomb can help remove troublesome Ghost-types that can set up on Hypno. You should also include either a Rapid Spin user or a grounded Poison-type on your team (or both), as Toxic Spikes will make Hypno nearly worthless.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Hypno can Baton Pass Nasty Plot or Calm Mind boosts, potentially setting up a devastating sweep for a teammate such as Sceptile or Manectric. However, Hypno's poor Speed makes it difficult to pull this off consistently in a metagame filled with powerful attackers. If you do choose to use Baton Pass, note that it is illegal with Wish because Hypno receives them from separate events. Hypno can also attempt to use the boosts to sweep on its own, but it lacks the stats to do so successfully. Trick Room and dual screens sets are better left to other Psychic-type supporters. Hypnosis, Taunt, Disable, and Counter are all possibilities on the standard support set, but they generally don't match the utility of Thunder Wave or Toxic. Finally, extremely daring players can try a Choice Band set with Zen Headbutt, Drain Punch, Ice Punch, and Switcheroo; satisfaction is guaranteed, especially if your goal is to lose.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Defensive Ghost-types such as Spiritomb and Dusknoir have nothing to fear from Hypno's standard set, as they are immune to Seismic Toss and don't mind being paralyzed. Skuntank and Drapion can shut Hypno down with Taunt and trap it with STAB Pursuit. Any Pokemon with Toxic can cripple Hypno permanently. In general, Hypno can't stand up to physical beatings, so physical attackers such as Entei and Aggron will take it down quickly.</p>