[Overview]

<p>Jumpluff is a fairly average Pokemon; it doesn't have a lot going for it. Jumpluff's defenses are poor, it's typing is nothing to be proud of, and its offensive stats are pitiful, to say the least. That's not all; Jumpluff's typing gives it a crippling weakness to Stealth Rock, which limits its effectiveness. Things aren't all bad for our cotton ball friend, however; its massive Speed, coupled with Sleep Powder, Substitute, and Leech Seed turn it into an effective support Pokemon. Furthermore, Jumpluff's ability, Chlorophyll, makes it an effective Sunny Day supporter. Jumpluff is by no means a bad Pokemon; just keep it out of harm's way and it will be a pain in the backside for your opponent.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSeed
move 1: Leech Seed
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Sleep Powder
move 4: Encore 
item: Leftovers
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Timid
evs: 188 Def / 68 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is undoubtedly Jumpluff's most effective set. Taking advantage of its high Speed, Sleep Powder, and Substitute, Jumpluff can pull off an effective SubSeed set. The idea is to switch into a slower opponent, incapacitate it with Sleep Powder, and proceed to annoy the opponent with a combination of Substitute and Leech Seed. Alternatively, switch into a Choice-locked Earthquake or Close Combat, Substitute as the opponent switches, and cripple the opponent's Jumpluff counter with Sleep Powder. Encore, combined with Jumpluff's high Speed, means it can force the opponent to repeat useless support moves, such as Stealth Rock, while it sets up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread focuses on Jumpluff's high Speed, and 188 Defense EVs and 68 Special Defense EVs give it a stat of 223 in each defense. HP investment defeats the purpose of using Leech Seed; without investment, Jumpluff restores a larger percentage of its HP, which makes it easier to set up Substitutes. Hidden Power Flying can be used to hit Grass-types, but coming off Jumpluff's poor Special Attack stat, it won't do much to defensive Pokemon, such as Ferroseed. U-turn is another option to scout the opponent's switch-ins, and also helps preserve momentum and force further switches.</p>

<p>Thanks to their Leech Seed immunities, Grass-types can wall this set for years to come. To combat this, Fire- and Flying-types, such as Typhlosion and Swellow, respectively, make great teammates. Sap Sipper Miltank and Sawsbuck can also bring opposing Grass-types to a standstill, but they can't do much else. Poison-types, such as Scolipede and Garbodor, can switch into Grass-types and use them as set-up bait, and their STAB moves make little work of their plant enemies.</p>

<p>Being part Flying-type, Jumpluff requires support in the form of Rapid Spin. Kabutops and Cryogonal are excellent choices, and the latter can also take on Grass-types. In return, Jumpluff can switch into Water- and Grass-type moves aimed at the aforementioned Pokemon and Leech Seed to provide semi-reliable recovery. Finally, this set causes a lot of switches, making entry hazard support a good choice. Garbodor can set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes, and it has a nifty resistance to Poison-type moves. Crustle is another good choice as it can set up Spikes and Stealth Rock, and its STAB Bug-type moves can dispose of any Grass-types; be careful though, Crustle shares a Rock-type weakness with Jumpluff.</p>

[SET]
name: Sunny Day
move 1: Sunny Day
move 2: Sleep Powder 
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Memento / Encore
item: Heat Rock
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Teams which play with the sun are deadly, regardless of which tier they're in. Thanks to its high Speed and Chlorophyll ability, Jumpluff is an ideal Pokemon to set up this weather. The idea is to put a slower Pokemon to sleep, set up Sunny Day, and proceed to U-turn or Memento. Memento is pretty nifty move; when Jumpluff uses Memento, it sacrifices itself to bring in a powerful teammate. Thanks to this generation's new Growth mechanics, Pokemon such as Tangrowth and Victreebel can come in on a weakened Pokemon, boost their stats, and plow through the opponent's team. Encore uses the same concept, but instead of sacrificing Jumpluff, it can lock the opponent into a weak or non-damaging move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are pretty straightforward; maximum HP and Speed investment ensure that Jumpluff retains the jump on slower Pokemon in the tier, and the HP EVs give it enough bulk to survive weak, resisted attacks. Heat Rock is the item of choice as it prolongs the sun. Chlorophyll is preferred over Leaf Guard as Jumpluff will put most opponents to sleep, and the majority of opponents will try and KO Jumpluff rather than status it.</p>

<p>The main objective of this set is to set up Sunny Day, and as such, teammates should take advantage of the weather. Chlorophyll abusers, such as Victreebel and Sawsbuck, are deadly with boosted Speed, and an instantaneous SolarBeam can be devastating for unsuspecting opponents. Fire-types, such as Entei and Charizard, can also take advantage of the sun; furthermore, Charizard's Solar Power ability makes it immensely powerful. If you want a more defensive approach to things, Leaf Guard Tangrowth can stall the opponent with Leech Seed, incapacitate them with Sleep Powder, and restore its health with Synthesis.</p>

<p>As a support Pokemon, Jumpluff appreciates Pokemon that can switch into its weaknesses. Steel-types, such as Aggron, can switch into Ice- and Rock-type moves aimed at Jumpluff, and in return, Jumpluff can switch into Ground- and Fighting-type moves. Water-types can switch into Ice-type attacks, but they don't fare well against opposing Grass-types. Lastly, Stealth Rock is a major thorn in Jumpluff's side, making Rapid Spin support a good option to consider. Cryogonal is a great choice, with its resistance to Ice-type moves, reliable recovery, and STAB Ice-type moves. Kabutops and Hitmonchan are other choices, but neither of them have a reliable recovery move, and they're also vulnerable to Spikes and Toxic Spikes.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Besides the moves already listed, Jumpluff's movepool isn't anything spectacular. Aromatherapy is probably its best remaining move; combined with its blistering Speed, Jumpluff can rid its team of status before the opponent has chance to hit it. Reflect can soften physical attacks, but it doesn't benefit Jumpluff very much. Swords Dance, Aerial Ace, and Seed Bomb are available, but Jumpluff's Attack is nothing short of worthless, and it doesn't provide great coverage either. Cotton Guard, Amnesia, and Synthesis can form a boosting tank set, but with common Haze users in the tier, it won't be difficult to beat. Stun Spore can form part of a double status set, but it's usually a wasted moveslot. Finally, Giga Drain can be used on any set to restore Jumpluff's health; it also receives a STAB boost as well.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Jumpluff's offensive stats are terrible, so the only things you have to watch out for are Sleep Powder and Leech Seed. Thanks to their immunity to Leech Seed, the majority of Grass-types can take Jumpluff out. Ferroseed is a perfect example; it is immune to Leech Seed, it doesn't mind Sleep Powder, and it can use Jumpluff as set-up bait if Sleep Clause is already broken. Sawsbuck and Bouffalant can switch into any Grass-type move and absorb it with Sap Sipper, forcing Jumpluff to switch out or face a powerful attack. What makes Jumpluff so dangerous is its massive Speed; to overcome this, you can do one of two things. Firstly, a paralyzed Jumpluff is essentially useless; predict correctly, and you can cripple this cotton ball for the remainder of the match. Secondly, Choice Scarf users outspeed and KO Jumpluff before it has chance to do anything. Finally, Stealth Rock will take its toll on Jumpluff, and keeping it on the field is guaranteed to give it problems. Jumpluff isn't difficult to counter after it has put one of your Pokemon to sleep; just hit it with everything you've got.</p>