[Overview]

<p>As a Normal-type, saying that Kangaskhan faces competition for use is an understatement. In a tier with access to many Normal-types to choose from, Kangaskhan hardly seems to stand out. However, upon further inspection, there are many useful attributes Kangaskhan possesses that allows it to distinguish itself from its competition. Kangaskhan's extensive movepool grants it a variety of useful offensive tools, including Fake Out, Sucker Punch, and more, allowing it to threaten fast and slow Pokemon alike. Scrappy is also a major selling point for Kangaskhan, granting it perfect two-move coverage and preventing Ghost-types from adequately checking it. However, Kangaskhan is by no means a one-man army. Its only slightly above average Attack and Speed make it both unable to break through common bulkier Pokemon without prior damage and incapable of taking on faster offensive teams without resorting to its shakier priority attacks. While it certainly isn't any kind of powerhouse like Moltres or Druddigon, Kangaskhan is a very well-rounded offensive Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Double-Edge / Return
move 2: Drain Punch / Earthquake
move 3: Fake Out
move 4: Sucker Punch
item: Silk Scarf / Life Orb
ability: Scrappy 
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Kangaskhan's well-rounded stats and movepool allow it to effectively take on the role of a bulky attacker. Thanks to its Scrappy ability, Kangaskhan can much more safely capitalize on the neutral coverage of its STAB moves than its Normal-type brethren. Thus, Kangaskhan's Double-Edge is significantly more difficult to switch into, 2HKOing defensive pivots such as Slowking and Amoonguss while also OHKOing frail offensive Pokemon like Sceptile. While Double-Edge's extra oomph does help compensate for Kangaskhan's average Attack stat, the recoil can be rather off-putting, which makes Return a respectable alternative. Drain Punch provides perfect neutral coverage alongside Kangaskhan's STAB attack of choice, allowing it to hit Rock- and Steel-types for reasonable damage while also allowing Kangaskhan to recover some HP. However, considering the natural physical bulk of Rock- and Steel-types, Earthquake is also a very viable option, with its extra damage output allowing Kangaskhan to wear down Pokemon like Rhydon and Steelix better.</p>

<p>With Kangaskhan's bases covered with its first two moves, it can focus its attention on versatility. Fake Out allows Kangaskhan to deal what is essentially "free damage," allowing it to hit any Pokemon lacking Inner Focus or Steadfast without immediate consequence. This extra damage not only aides Kangaskhan in checking a variety of frailer sweepers, but also allows it to beat Smeargle safely, breaking its Focus Sash with Fake Out and outpacing and finishing it off with another attack. However, this luxury must be played carefully, as simply clicking Fake Out every time Kangaskhan switches in can easily be exploited. Sucker Punch offers Kangaskhan a priority move of use after its first turn on the field, and forms an effective 1-2 punch alongside Fake Out, allowing it to take down a variety of frailer Pokemon, including but not necessarily limited to Galvantula, Sceptile, and Accelgor.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>While the extra power of an Adamant nature is often preferred, especially considering half of Kangaskhan's attacks are already priority-based and thus do not often require Speed, Jolly should never be overlooked, as the ability to Speed tie dangerous Pokemon such as Moltres and Lilligant and outpacing Entei is incredibly valuable for any Pokemon. A Jolly nature also ensures Kangaskhan can outspeed unboosted Gallade and Kabutops, both of which also remain very threatening Pokemon. While the generalized power of Life Orb is helpful and does help in picking off offensive Pokemon with less prior damage, Silk Scarf is often the superior choice, as it better complements Kangaskhan's natural bulk and helps in preventing it from being worn down by entry hazard damage and weaker attacks as easily. This is especially true when Kangaskhan is running Double-Edge, as the accumulative recoil puts Kangaskhan on an uncomfortably short timer, even with the recovery Drain Punch provides. Crush Claw can be used, as its high chance of Defense drops allows it to force bulkier Pokemon out with the prospect of taking unnecessarily hefty hits, though it often means losing out on Fake Out, a major draw to Kangaskhan. Fire Punch offers Kangaskhan an attack capable of dispatching Escavalier and Durant cleanly, though using it means either dropping its other coverage option, and in turn losing its ability to hit Rock-types, or Fake Out.</p>

<p>Fire-type Pokemon like Entei, Moltres, and Emboar make excellent partners for Kangaskhan, not only taking on Steel-types and Tangrowth comfortably, but also switching into Will-O-Wisps that would otherwise cripple Kangaskhan. Spikes support helps Kangaskhan wear down bulky Rock- and Steel-types that give it problems, as well as dedicated physical walls such Poliwrath and Tangrowth. Smeargle is useful partner for setting up early-game hazards, and Qwilfish is a useful fallback for fast Fighting-types that can also provide Thunder Wave support to help alleviate Kangaskhan's average Speed stat. Thanks to Kangaskhan's ability to comfortably take on Ghost-types, it makes it one of the better Pokemon for Normal-type stacking, with partners such as Tauros, Zangoose, and Sawsbuck all benefiting from its ability to wear down their preliminary checks and counters so that they can sweep late-game. Choice Scarf Rotom-C offers a solid switch-in to Tangrowth and bulky Water- and Rock-types that give Kangaskhan troubles and a partner capable of safely revenge killing most Steel-type setup sweepers that Kangaskhan has difficulty facing. Strong Fighting-types, such as Gallade and Hitmonlee, appreciate Kangaskhan's ability to combat Ghost-types and wear down physical walls, aiding their ability to sweep, while in turn they are capable of pressuring bulky Rock- and Steel-types that check Kangaskhan.</p>

[SET]
name: SubPunch
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Focus Punch
move 3: Return
move 4: Sucker Punch
item: Leftovers
ability: Scrappy 
nature: Adamant 
evs: 216 HP / 236 Atk / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Kangaskhan's moderately high bulk and Scrappy ability, it can make a very effective user of Focus Punch. Kangaskhan's sizable 105 / 80 / 80 defenses allow it to take hits surprisingly well, and in turn making its Substitutes very resilient, allowing it to play around Seismic Toss users with ease. Focus Punch allows Kangaskhan to punch holes in the Rock- and Steel-types that it lures in, even having a high chance of 2HKOing Rhydon after Stealth Rock damage. Return allows Kangaskhan perfect neutral coverage alongside Focus Punch with the aide of Scrappy, as well as providing a move with neutral priority for hitting slower Pokemon safely. Sucker Punch is the icing on the cake, allowing Kangaskhan to pick off faster Pokemon, with Substitute preventing the opponent from playing around it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Kangaskhan to produce five consecutive 101 HP Substitutes with enough Speed to outpace Jolly Crawdaunt, allowing it to KO it with Return before it can respond. A faster spread of 80 HP / 252 Atk / 176 Spe can be used to get the jump on base 80 Speed Pokemon such as Gallade and Kabutops, though it comes with a noticeable drop in bulk that hurts its ability to switch in repeatedly.</p>

<p>In terms of support, Misdreavus is a solid partner for taking on Fighting-types, spreading burns to indirectly make Kangaskhan's Substitutes more resilient to physical attacks, and providing Heal Bell support to prevent Kangaskhan from being crippled by status. Considering Kangaskhan is adept in luring in and wearing down Normal-type resists, other strong Normal-types such as Cinccino and Zangoose are excellent partners for Kangaskhan for sweeping late-game. Strong Fighting-types, such as Gallade and Hitmonlee, appreciate Kangaskhan's ability to combat Ghost-types and wear down physical walls to clean up late-game, while also wearing down Rock- and Steel-types.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Being a Normal-type, Kangaskhan has a variety of other options available to it. A Choice Band set can be used to push through certain defensive Pokemon like Poliwrath and Tangrowth better, though it turns some of Kangaskhan's most noteworthy moves, namely Fake Out and Sucker Punch, into liabilities. A Choice Scarf set can be used to decent effect considering Kangaskhan's decent Speed tier and Attack, though it belittles its nice priority moves and doesn't deal all too much damage without any particular item backing its Attack stat. ThunderPunch and Ice Punch both offer Kangaskhan respectable super effective coverage, though barring a couple exceptions, the targets of these attacks are hit slightly harder by STAB Return. Aqua Tail offers good neutral coverage alongside Kangaskhan's Normal STAB, in particular putting a big dent in Rhydon. Kangaskhan can use Disable to play around Choice users, though its lack of useful immunities or resistances severely impedes this. Kangaskhan has access to some decent defensive options such as Wish, Roar, and Circle Throw, along with good bulk, though it faces competition from Lickilicky, who can run essentially the same set with better overall bulk. Work Up can be used to boost Kangaskhan's Attack stat, though with Kangaskhan every moveslot counts, and Kangaskan lacks the Speed to reliably sweep.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Steel- and Rock-types such as Steelix, Escavalier, and Rhydon are Kangaskhan's preliminary counters, taking very little from its attacks and being able to wear it down with their attacks. Durant in particular can switch into, set up on, and break through Kangaskhan, while Kangaskhan's priority attacks are unable to dent it, making Durant one of the few fast sweepers that Kangaskhan can't realistically check. However, Durant's lack of recovery makes it vulnerable to being worn down by entry hazard damage. Generally, physically bulky Pokemon such as Poliwrath, Tangrowth, and Uxie can all check Kangaskhan moderately well, though they cannot do so repeatedly. Fast Fighting-types such as Hitmonlee and Primeape can outpace Kangaskhan, resist Sucker Punch, and can OHKO it with their STAB attacks. Due to Kangaskhan's lack of resistances and vulnerability to entry hazard damage, it is very easily worn down from repeated switch-ins.</p>