[Overview]

<p>Kecleon is certainly a special case when it comes to Pokemon. At first glance, you'll notice its obscure movepool, consisting of oddities such as Nasty Plot, Trick Room, Recover, Stealth Rock, and more. That's not all; Kecleon's ability, Color Change, makes it a unique threat to opposing Pokemon. In one sense it's a blessing, giving Kecleon an easy time against Choiced Pokemon, but in another, it makes Kecleon incredibly easy to counter. Furthermore, Color Change means that Kecleon lacks a consistant STAB move, making it weak offensively. Kecleon's Special Defense and Attack stats are usable, but its other stats are relatively poor. Kecleon is by no means a bad Pokemon, but it needs careful preparation to use correctly.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Recover
move 3: Return
move 4: Thunder Wave / Aqua Tail
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its good Special Defense, Color Change ability, and access to Recover, Kecleon makes for a decent special wall. Color Change is the main reason to use Kecleon, as the ability to manipulate typing and resistances makes it easy to defeat common Choice users, such as Magmortar and Rotom-C. Thunder Wave will neutralize any special attacker stupid enough to stay in, Stealth Rock weakens switch-ins, and Recover keeps Kecleon healthy. Return provides STAB before Kecleon's Color Change kicks in, while Aqua Tail hits the Rock-, Ghost-, and Steel-types that resist it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are simple; by maximizing Kecleon's HP and Special Defense, it becomes an excellent special wall and supporter. A physically defensive spread can be used to sponge weaker attacks, but it's massively inferior to the specially defensive set. Toxic can be used over Stealth Rock if your team already has entry hazard support, and Knock Off can ruin Eviolite or Choice item users. Any of its support moves can be switched around to suit your team, but Recover is vital for keeping Kecleon alive.</p>

<p>Pokemon that take out Fighting-types are helpful teammates. Dusknoir and Qwilfish have high physical Defense, Will-O-Wisp and Scald, respectively, to burn opponents, and Qwilfish has a decent ability in Intimidate. Physical walls, such as Uxie and Tangrowth, can switch into physical attackers, incapacitate them with a status move, support their teammates, and stick around all day. Offensive Psychic-types, such as Sigilyph, can hit Fighting-types with their STAB moves, while more defensive Pokemon, such as Duosion, can set up Calm Mind and stall with Recover. Kecleon's relatively poor attacking power means it tends to become easy setup bait for the opponent. Encore Clefable and Accelgor or Haze Weezing can put a stop to setup sweepers.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Recover
move 3: Return
move 4: Stealth Rock / Aqua Tail
item: Leftovers
nature: Sassy
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its low Speed, good Special Defense, access to instant recovery, and Color Change, Kecleon is an excellent Trick Room supporter. The idea is simple: set up Stealth Rock and Trick Room, switch out, and let Kecleon's teammates attack for three turns. Kecleon's decent bulk gives it many opportunities to switch in and use Trick Room, so you don't have to worry about it only lasting for three turns. Trick Room and Recover are the staples of this set, while Return is Kecleon's most reliable STAB move before it changes type. Aqua Tail provides coverage against Rock-, Steel-, and Ghost-types that resist or are immune to Return, and has a chance of becoming boosted should Kecleon change to a Water-type.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum HP and Special Defense investment make Kecleon as bulky as possible. With a Sassy nature, no Speed investment, and a Speed IV of zero, Kecleon is incredibly slow. A more offensive set can be used with a Brave nature, but Kecleon is more reliable as a defensive Pokemon. Knock Off is another viable move to cripple Eviolite and Choice users, while Toxic can be used to stop defensive walls that normally beat Kecleon, such as Spiritomb and Uxie.</p>

<p>Pokemon that can abuse Trick Room are essential teammates. Beheeyem can set up Nasty Plot and deal hefty damage to the opponent. Steelix and Rhydon work in a similar fashion; a combination of STAB Earthquake, coverage moves in Stone Edge and Fire Punch, respectively, and decent defensive stats make them prime candidates for a Trick Room team. Slowking is another good choice as it can boost its stats with Nasty Plot, heal itself with Slack Off, and set up Trick Room on its own. If you require additional Trick Room support, Spiritomb, Duosion, and Smeargle are great teammates to set it up.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Kecleon's movepool is that of any Normal-type: strange, to say the least. Nasty Plot can be used with Thunderbolt and Ice Beam, but Kecleon's Special Attack isn't good enough to warrant a set. Magic Coat provides a safety net from status and also reverses field effects such as Stealth Rock. A Choice Band set with Trick can take advantage of Kecleon's decent Attack, but its ever-changing type makes it difficult to find a reliable STAB move. Shadow Sneak and Sucker Punch help Kecleon overcome its low Speed, but their low Base Power and lack of STAB make them inferior to its other options. Work Up and Hone Claws can raise Kecleon's Attack, but Kecleon's poor Speed makes it difficult to pull off a sweep. The elemental punches are available from previous generations, providing decent type coverage to Kecleon's movepool. Counter is a decent option with Kecleon's average defense and access to Recover; just make sure you predict correctly. Fake Out gives Kecleon a way to hit Pokemon upon switching in, but if it isn't used right away, it's not worth a moveslot. Charge Beam has a decent chance to raise its Special Attack, but Nasty Plot is more reliable. Substitute and Focus Punch seems tempting, but the lack of STAB is a big turn off. Finally, Kecleon has access to Rain Dance and Sunny Day, along with moves such as Thunder, SolarBeam, Flamethrower, and Water Pulse.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Color Change makes Kecleon unique, but easy to counter. Fighting-types, such as Gallade, Medicham, and Sawk, can pry open Kecleon's lower Defense and hit it before Color Change kicks in. In fact, any physical attack will deal a number on Kecleon, especially from Pokemon such as Absol who can switch between Night Slash and Superpower. As Kecleon is primarily a support Pokemon, Taunt will cause problems for most of its sets. Furthermore, Substitute users can also block Thunder Wave and Toxic. It's best to beat Kecleon at its own game; Color Change is Kecelon's signature ability, but also its greatest downfall. Pokemon that have good coverage moves can easily switch between them and bring Kecleon to its knees. For example, Moltres can switch between Hidden Power Grass and Fire Blast, Scyther can switch between Bug Bite and Aerial Ace, and Steelix can switch between Gyro Ball and Earthquake. Pokemon with high Defense can switch into any of its attacks and shut it down with status. Tangrowth is an excellent example as it can switch into any of Kecleon's common attacking moves, cripple it with Sleep Powder, and proceed to roast it with Hidden Power Fire. Other good examples include Spiritomb, Steelix, and Uxie. Kecleon isn't too difficult to beat, as its usefulness lies in the opponent's battling skills; if the opponent knows how to use Kecleon, it's an incredible pain in the backside.</p>