[Overview]

<p>Krookodile is an extremely threatening Pokemon in RU thanks to its unique Dark / Ground typing, which allows it to hit most of the tier for super effective or neutral damage. This typing also gifts it with immunities to Electric- and Psychic-type moves, making it considerably easier to switch in. Krookodile's most dangerous factor is its Moxie ability, which allows it to abuse its offensive power to great effect; Moxie allows it to pull sweeps out of thin air, as after every KO, Krookodile's Attack is raised. Krookodile can also take on a more supportive role with Intimidate, also easing its ability to switch in. Krookodile's movepool is rather sparse, but it is superbly tailored to what Krookodile needs to be effective.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, there are several factors that hinder Krookodile's success in the tier. It lacks almost any viable alternative move options, which along with its mediocre Special Attack stat, makes it extremely predictable as it will almost always be running the same moveset. Despite having two immunities, Krookodile lacks many useful resistances, which when combined with its poor defensive stats make it very difficult for Krookodile to take many hits. It is also vulnerable to all types of entry hazards, Spikes and Toxic Spikes in particular. In spite of these flaws, Krookodile is a Pokemon you must always consider when making a team, as it can and will sweep you on a moment's notice.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Crunch
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Pursuit
item: Choice Scarf / Life Orb
ability: Moxie
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the de facto set that Krookodile will run, using its decent coverage and great attacking power to either attempt an endgame sweep or remove key threats. Earthquake is Krookodile's strongest offensive option, hitting most of the tier for neutral or super effective damage. Crunch is Krookodile's other STAB option, killing Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon, while also being an attack that can be put to great use on a Choice set as nothing is immune to it. Stone Edge covers the Flying-types that are immune to Earthquake, while Pursuit catches fleeing Ghost-types, also picking off weakened opposition.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Depending on which item you choose, Krookodile can be played in different ways. Choice Scarf turns Krookodile into a very effective late game revenge killer, while Life Orb gives it the freedom to switch moves, also making Moxie boosts easier to accrue. Maximum Attack and Speed EVs maximize Krookodile's sweeping capabilities. Moxie makes it easier for Krookodile to sweep through a weakened team, gaining power with each Pokemon that is defeated. Brick Break is an option over Pursuit if you don't want to be locked into a weaker move, but it has little utility outside of hitting Rock- and Steel-type switch-ins. Krookodile functions very effectively on its own due to its great coverage and lack of reliable counters; however, there are certain partners that work well with it. Krookodile appreciates Rapid Spin support due to its vulnerability to entry hazards, while Choice Fighting-type Pokemon such as Medicham can take advantage of the Ghost-types removed by Krookodile.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Intimidate can be used to soften physical attacks, though as an offensive Pokemon, Moxie is the preferred ability. Foul Play can surprise strong physical attackers, such as Medicham and Sceptile, by using their own high Attack against them; however, it is pretty much useless against defensive Pokemon due to their low attacking power. Outrage and Dragon Claw give Krookodile perfect neutral coverage on the tier, but they lack STAB and lose super effective coverage on many Pokemon. Krookodile can use Hone Claws or even Bulk Up to boost its power without having to rely on Moxie, though its lack of Speed and poor defenses make setting up difficult. Taunt and Toxic can be used to combat stall teams, preventing them from phazing Krookodile or inflicting status. Dragon Tail and Roar are options to accrue entry hazard damage upon the opposition; the negative priority is unappealing, however. Substitute can be used to ease prediction and avoid status moves, but once again, Krookodile's lack of Speed makes this option unlikely to be effective in the long term.</p>

[Checks And Counters]

<p>Tangrowth walls Krookodile completely, taking little damage from all of its attacks; it can use its STAB moves to hit Krookodile super effectively, drain its health with Leech Seed, or inflict a crippling status condition. Krookodile is also walled by Mandibuzz; unboosted Stone Edge is unable to 2HKO Mandibuzz, allowing it to Roost off the damage, and thus stall out Stone Edge's PP. Status afflictions really affect Krookodile's performance; burn completely neuters its offensive presence, while poison and paralysis also hinder it significantly. Similarly, Flying-types and Levitate users, such as Moltres and Cryogonal, can take advantage of a Krookodile locked into a Ground-type move. Pokemon such as Sceptile, Accelgor, and Hariyama can switch in on a resisted STAB move, take an attack, and proceed to KO Krookodile in return. Qwilfish makes a great check as well, as it can sponge even Earthquakes with ease thanks to Intimidate and deal heavy damage with STAB Waterfall. While not as effective, Amoonguss can take any of Krookodile's attacks with ease barring Earthquake, and virtually put it out of the game for good with Spore. Finally, Choice Fighting-types can switch into Crunch or Stone Edge and destroy Krookodile with their powerful STAB options.</p>