[Overview]

<p>Although Lanturn lacks any appealing stats outside of its HP, its rare Water / Electric typing gives it many useful resistances and, combined with its ability Volt Absorb, allows it to check many prominent threats such as Omastar, Manectric, Jynx, and most importantly Moltres. Lanturn stands out as the best counter to Moltres in RU, as it resists both of its STABs and can also tank its hits reasonably well thanks to its excellent HP stat. Lanturn also has access to useful utility moves, such as Volt Switch, Heal Bell, and Thunder Wave, giving it some excellent options to support its team. Lanturn's ultimate downfall, however, is its lack of reliable recovery. Due to this, constant damage from attacks and entry hazards will easily take their toll on it. Lanturn is also fairly weak offensively; its middling base 76 Special Attack isn't remarkably strong, which means Lanturn can sometimes be setup fodder for dangerous threats, particularly Sceptile and Lilligant. Lanturn's middling physical bulk also leaves it vulnerable to powerful physical attacks in the tier. Despite this, Lanturn holds a strong niche in RU as a great special tank and pivot.</p>

[SET]
name: Pivot
move 1: Scald
move 2: Volt Switch
move 3: Thunder Wave / Toxic
move 4: Protect / Heal Bell
item: Leftovers
ability: Volt Absorb
nature: Calm
evs: 204 HP / 96 Def / 208 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Lanturn's most common set in the RU metagame, functioning mostly as a defensive pivot; Lanturn can come in on common special threats, while also being able to grab momentum with Volt Switch. It is able to check many of the prominent special threats in RU, such as Moltres, Omastar, and Manectric. Scald is a great move, as its burn chance allows Lanturn to weaken physical attackers that try to come in on it. Volt Switch lets Lanturn switch out of Grass-types and default to a proper teammate. Thunder Wave can paralyze fast Pokemon such as Accelgor and Sceptile, making them ineffective for the rest of the match. Toxic, however, allows Lanturn to wear down bulkier Pokemon like Druddigon and Slowking. Protect allows Lanturn to scout moves and gain Leftovers recovery; and works well with Toxic. Heal Bell is another invaluable support move in Lanturn's arsenal, allowing it to cure the team and itself from status.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Lanturn to avoid being 2HKOed by Moltres's Hidden Power Grass, while still being able to check Entei and Emboar relatively well. A Calm nature is chosen to maximize special bulk to make checking Moltres easier. Volt Absorb allows Lanturn to come in on Galvantula and Manectric, while giving it some form of recovery outside of Leftovers. RestTalk is usable to provide Lanturn some form of recovery, and can repeatedly check Moltres. This is, however, quite situational otherwise. Ice Beam could also be used to hit Druddigon and Grass-types, but Lanturn is too weak most of the time anyways.</p>

<p>Spikes support is useful because of the numerous switches Lanturn forces; Ferroseed, Roselia, and Scolipede are all viable options for Spikers and handling opposing Grass-types. Scyther can be a decent teammate, as it can handle opposing Grass-types, and has U-turn to form a VoltTurn core with Lanturn. Emboar and Entei are excellent choices to handle Grass-types as well. Clefable and Alomomola are good teammates to pass Wishes to Lanturn due to its lack of recovery. Finally, Cryogonal is a great choice to remove entry hazards to prevent Lanturn from being repeatedly worn down. Cryogonal can also handle Grass-types decently for Lanturn, while Lanturn resists Fire-type moves in return.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Hydro Pump / Surf
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Choice Specs / Life Orb
ability: Volt Absorb
nature: Modest
evs: 136 HP / 252 SpA / 120 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Lanturn's middling Special Attack might make this seem like an odd choice, Lanturn is a perfectly viable candidate for a special attacker. Its bulk and typing allow it to come in on a number of special threats, Moltres in particular, and proceed to fire off reasonably powerful attacks. Its ability also allows it a form of recovery by switching into Galvantula and Manectric, which is useful to keep Lanturn healthy. Even though Lanturn's power can still be a bit lacking, it is bulky enough to use its moves multiple times. Lanturn's main advantage over Slowking in this role is its Electric typing, which grants it a good STAB to use against opposing bulky Water-types.</p>

<p>Volt Switch is the most notable move in Lanturn's arsenal, allowing it to switch out to other teammates while grabbing momentum. Hydro Pump is a solid STAB move, packing great power while pummeling Steelix and Rhydon hoping to absorb a Volt Switch. Surf is usable for its accuracy, but the loss in power is noticeable though. Thunderbolt serves as a powerful and reliable move to hit opposing Water-types hard. Ice Beam rounds out the coverage, providing Lanturn with a weapon against opposing Grass-types and Druddigon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Lanturn's power and bulk, and allows it to outpace standard Qwilfish. Choice Specs and Life Orb provide the needed power boosts to Lanturn's middling Special Attack stat, allowing it to deal more damage. Volt Absorb allows Lanturn to check Galvantula and Manectric, and provides it a source of recovery. Expert Belt is a good alternative over Choice Specs or Life Orb due to Lanturn's good coverage, although the loss in power against neutral targets is noticeable.</p>

<p>Entry hazard support is very useful to help Lanturn achieve needed KOs. Roselia and Scolipede are both viable options as they can keep opposing Grass-types at bay. Scyther synergizes very well with Lanturn, as it can handle Grass-types, while Lanturn can cover many of Scyther's weaknesses rather well. The two of them can also form a VoltTurn core to maintain pressure on the opponent. Finally, Entei or Emboar are especially useful to be able to handle opposing Grass-types.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lanturn has a number of other options at its disposal that it can make use of. It can use Charge Beam alongside Substitute to steadily boost its middling Special Attack to formidable levels. Rain Dance is usable, and allows Lanturn to hit hard with Surf and Thunder, but is only useful on dedicated rain teams. It can run Confuse Ray alongside Thunder Wave to perform the parafusion strategy; however, this is often seen as a gimmick, and is outdone by Liepard thanks to Prankster. It can also run Aqua Ring to give it a decent form of recovery alongside Leftovers. Lanturn has access to Signal Beam to handle Grass- and Psychic-types. Agility is a notable move to boost Lanturn's Speed and allow it to sweep teams. Finally, Brine is also a decent option to deal heavy damage to weakened opponents, but the move is very situational.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Grass-types such as Roselia, Sceptile, and Lilligant are notable, as they can come in on most of Lanturn's moves and hit it back hard. Substitute users can use Lanturn as setup fodder due to its low damage output. Strong physical attackers such as Cinccino, Druddigon, and Escavalier can do heavy damage to Lanturn, as its Defense is rather lackluster. Guts or Toxic Boost users such as Hariyama, Zangoose, and Gurdurr can avoid Thunder Wave and hit it extremely hard. Due to Lanturn's lack of reliable recovery, constant pressure will make it easier to eliminate from the match. Finally, Earthquake users such as Golurk, Archeops, and Scolipede can deal large amounts of damage to Lanturn.</p>