[Overview]

<p>Leafeon is a perfect example of why you should not judge a book by its cover: beneath its cute exterior lies a fierce Pokemon that can take a hit and hit back hard. A top-tier physical attacker in RU, Leafeon has a few perks that make it usable over other Grass-types, such as Sceptile and Sawsbuck. Leafeon can run a variety of sets that range from offensive to defensive, even including a hybrid of both. Additionally, Leafeon can support its teammates with useful moves such as Baton Pass and Heal Bell, which make it a team player no matter which set it runs. Sadly, our intrepid Eeveelution faces some heavy competition from Sawsbuck, which shares the exact same Speed stat and has access to a noticeably better movepool and incredible abilities. That said, Leafeon still manages to differentiate itself from Sawsbuck due to its higher defenses and handy support moves. If you are looking for an unconventional but effective Pokemon, then look no further, because Leafeon will rarely let you down.</p>

[SET]
name: Hybrid Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Leaf Blade
move 3: Double-Edge
move 4: Heal Bell / Baton Pass
item: Leftovers
nature: Jolly
evs: 160 HP / 124 Atk / 224 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Leafeon is a capable Swords Dance user due to its awesome combination of high Attack and great Speed stats, but there is more to it than that. Leafeon has the ability to set up on a good portion of RU's physical walls, such as Dusknoir and Tangrowth, without fearing status due to Heal Bell. Leaf Blade does sizable damage to anything that does not resist it. However, this Leafeon should aim to set up multiple Swords Dance boosts, as even +2 Leafeon cannot do overwhelming damage. Double-Edge gives Leafeon nearly unresisted coverage—only missing out on Klinklang and Ferroseed—and its high Base Power makes it an invaluable tool against common Pokemon that resist Grass-type attacks, such as Moltres. On top of making Leafeon implacable in the face of most defensive Pokemon, Heal Bell also heals all its teammates of status. This is especially useful for Pokemon that have to rely on Rest for recovery; an example of which is defensive Poliwrath. Baton Pass is preferred if you want Leafeon to be able to scout or pass its boosts to a teammate should it run into a Pokemon it cannot get past.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The listed EV spread boosts both of Leafeon's defenses and lets it outrun Rotom, while the rest of the EVs are placed into Attack to boost its power. Specifically, this guarantees the OHKO on Gallade after a boost. However, you can move all the Attack EVs into HP to increase Leafeon's longevity if you wish. You can also give Leafeon maximum Attack and Speed EVs and a Life Orb, but note that this will make Leafeon an inferior Sawsbuck. In terms of moves, Leafeon can run both Baton Pass and Heal Bell; while this will significantly boost its supporting ability, the loss of Double-Edge means it will miss out on good damage against several important targets, such as Moltres and Entei. Synthesis can be used for reliable healing on the go, but Leafeon will have to forgo both Heal Bell and Baton Pass, and this will again leave Leafeon outclassed by Sawsbuck.</p>

<p>This Leafeon should be used as a supporter or attacker for most of the match and only look to sweep after its counters have been removed. Moltres and Entei will threaten Leafeon most of the time, especially if it has not amassed any Swords Dance boosts yet, and checks such as Galvantula and Manectric outspeed and OHKO Leafeon with Bug Buzz and Flamethrower, respectively. When it comes to countering special attacking Electric- and Fire-types, look no further than Lanturn. Lanturn has no problem taking on Galvantula, Manectric, and Moltres, and a healthy one can even beat Entei on a good day. Ferroseed laughs at Leafeon; Magneton is a good partner to deal with it. Entry hazards, specifically Stealth Rock, nerf each of these threats and at the same time aid Leafeon in obtaining some KOs. Omastar and Qwilfish are excellent at setting up entry hazards, and they even come with the ability to check some of Leafeon's Fire-type counters.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Wish
move 2: Protect
move 3: Leaf Blade
move 4: Yawn / Heal Bell 
item: Leftovers
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Defensive Leafeon might seem like an unconventional set at first, but it works quite well in practice. It is capable of countering some of the strongest physical attackers in RU, such as Feraligatr, Crawdaunt, and Kabutops, all of which give most teams huge trouble. Wish lets Leafeon heal itself and its teammates at any given time. However, keep in mind that due to Leafeon's small base HP, Pokemon with more HP than average will not appreciate Leafeon's 167 HP Wishes. Leaf Blade is Leafeon's obligatory STAB move, and it specifically causes serious damage to the aforementioned Water-type sweepers. Yawn rounds out this set by giving Leafeon access to a semi-reliable sleep move and works well alongside Protect to throw opponents into a catch-22 situation. If the opposing Pokemon stays in after being made drowsy, Leafeon can use Protect to guarantee that it falls asleep; if the foe's Pokemon switches out, the Pokemon that switches in risks falling asleep as well. Heal Bell is a legitimate choice over Yawn if you want Leafeon to be able to heal your team of status.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Leafeon can run Synthesis over Wish and Roar over Protect to create a shuffler set that aims to rack up entry hazard damage. This set is a stellar partner to useful defensive or support Pokemon that lack reliable recovery moves of their own, such as Spiritomb, Slowking, Qwilfish, and Sandslash. Slowking gets a special mention because it is capable of countering almost all the Pokemon that trouble Leafeon, such as Moltres and Typhlosion, and Leafeon can check a good majority of the physical attackers that give Slowking problems. Therefore, when paired together, Leafeon and Slowking form an almost-impregnable defensive core.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Leafeon has several other options at its disposal: Knock Off can deny Pokemon of their item, which cripples offensive and defensive Pokemon alike. Charm sharply lowers the Attack stat of its target and stops physical attackers in their tracks, while Tickle lowers both the Attack and Defense stats of its target. All of these moves can be considered on the defensive set, and it is up to you which moves they replace. Curse can make Leafeon a powerful tank, but it comes at the cost of some precious Speed, and RU is home to a many Pokemon that can outspeed and OHKO Leafeon regardless of how many defensive boosts it has amassed. Leafeon can make use of a Choice Band to catch standard checks such as Entei by surprise, but its inability to switch moves makes it prone to being set up on by Ferroseed and Lilligant, and Grass in general is a horrible STAB to be locked into.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>There are a plethora of Fire-types in RU that can contend with Leafeon most of the time. Entei is by far the most popular and the biggest thorn in Leafeon's side, as it can easily switch in and threaten Leafeon with any of its Fire-type moves. Entei needs to watch out for a Swords Dance-boosted Double-Edge though, which can OHKO if Stealth Rock is in play and it has taken prior damage. Moltres is a solid check most of the time, but like Entei it should watch out for Swords Dance-boosted Double-Edge, which will OHKO most Moltres after Stealth Rock damage. Unlike Moltres and Entei, there is absolutely nothing Leafeon can do to Typhlosion if it safely switches in; not only can Typhlosion threaten Leafeon with its powerful Fire-type moves, but it is also naturally faster than Leafeon. Manectric and Galvantula will always be able to revenge kill Leafeon with Flamethrower and Bug Buzz, respectively, and the latter can even switch into the occasional Grass-type move.</p>