[Overview]

<p>From the dawn of RU to the present day, Lilligant has been a top-tier threat. Excellent Special Attack and decent Speed combined with Quiver Dance make her a formidable sweeper after just a turn of boosting. Furthermore, she has access to the deadly Sleep Powder, allowing her to disable a surefire counter or provide extra setup opportunities. Unfortunately, it's not all a walk in the park for our flowery queen. Lilligant's mono-Grass typing leaves her with bad STAB coverage and weaknesses to common attacking types. Furthermore, her lack of secondary attacking options means she must rely on Hidden Power, which limits her ability to sweep. Despite these flaws, Lilligant is very dangerous once her checks and counters are removed and should always be played around carefully.</p>

[SET]
name: Quiver Dance
move 1: Quiver Dance
move 2: Sleep Powder
move 3: Giga Drain
move 4: Hidden Power Rock / Hidden Power Fire 
item: Life Orb / Lum Berry
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lilligant's stats make her a perfect user of Quiver Dance, being tailor-made for a move that raises her Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed one stage. As an added bonus, Lilligant also has access to Sleep Powder, enabling her to remove a troublesome check or counter as it switches in. These turns of sleep also create free opportunities to set up more. Giga Drain is Lilligant's most reliable STAB move and heals her in the process. Hidden Power Rock nets pretty good coverage alongside Giga Drain, hitting Fire-, Flying-, and Bug-types super effectively&mdash;such as Moltres and Entei&mdash;but misses out on Grass- and Steel-types. Alternatively, Hidden Power Fire hits Pokemon of these types, including Rotom-C and Escavalier, while also nailing Bug-types. It is especially useful early-game, when it can be used to lure out these Pokemon and remove them. Unfortunately, using it leaves Lilligant vulnerable to opposing Fire-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs on this set are rather straightforward: Special Attack and Speed are maximized to capitalize on Quiver Dance's boosts. A Timid nature is necessary to outpace various Pokemon just below Lilligant's Speed tier, including Choice Scarf Pinsir and Rotom-F at +1. Life Orb is naturally the item of choice, as the KOs it ensures are important considering Lilligant struggles to take a hit. That said, Lum Berry is an interesting alternative, offering a nice one-time save from otherwise crippling status such as Uxie's Thunder Wave or Slowking's Toxic. Chlorophyll is the most useful ability, enabling Lilligant to revenge kill Sunny Day sweepers like Victreebel. Substitute over Sleep Powder turns Pokemon like Slowking into setup fodder, allowing Lilligant to dodge status and obtain multiple boosts. However, she loses the ability to put an enemy to sleep, meaning this set plays very differently from the standard Quiver Dance set. Petal Dance is worth a mention along with her Own Tempo ability, but Grass is a bad type to be locked into and makes her even easier to revenge kill. That being said, the power boost is fantastic&mdash;Petal Dance can even 2HKO Pokemon that resist it like Entei at +1.</p>

<p>Generally, Lilligant fits well in Fire / Water / Grass cores as these give her teammates that can take on Pokemon that trouble her. With Hidden Power Fire, Fire-types like Moltres and Entei wall Lilligant; therefore, a strong Water-type, such as Kabutops, that can remove these foes is very useful. When running Hidden Power Rock, Grass- and Steel-types come in easily, so the Fire-types mentioned earlier pair well with Lilligant. A lack of a Fire-type move also makes Lilligant Escavalier bait, so a Pokemon like Qwilfish is a good teammate to tank its hits. Hidden Power Rock is better when using Lilligant late-game to hit the more common Fire- and Flying-types, as Lilligant can often beat Grass-types one-on-one regardless.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Sleep Powder
move 2: Leaf Storm 
move 3: Hidden Power Rock / Hidden Power Fire 
move 4: Healing Wish 
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Own Tempo
nature: Timid 
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to her access to Quiver Dance and the fact that such a set is incredibly difficult to stop, most people often forget that Lilligant isn't necessarily limited to just being a Quiver Dance sweeper. By slapping a Choice Scarf on her, Lilligant becomes capable of far more than just acting as a simple setup sweeper. Thanks to her blistering Speed with a Choice Scarf attached, Lilligant is able to pull off certain support moves that she would otherwise be unable to do with her mediocre defenses, which allows her to support her teammates more effectively. Furthermore, although the lack of Quiver Dance will limit Lilligant's damage output, her naturally potent Special Attack stat still lets her dish out serious damage with her most powerful STAB attacks, both of which are generally not used on a Quiver Dance-based set.</p>

<p>Of the moves listed on this set, Sleep Powder is easily the most important. Thanks to the extra Speed boost provided by Choice Scarf, Sleep Powder is capable of serving a variety of new, useful purposes that Lilligant would otherwise be unable to use it for. For example, because Lilligant is able to outspeed almost every unboosted Pokemon in the RU metagame, and she can be used in the lead position to shut down virtually every hazard setter in the tier right on the first turn, so long as you do not get unlucky or they use the rare Lum Berry. Furthermore, the basically guaranteed use of Sleep Powder makes Lilligant an incredibly powerful force; putting an opponent to sleep right at the beginning of the game is very useful as long as they don't have a dedicated sleep absorber and/or you don't get unlucky. It will easily give you great early-game momentum.</p>

<p>Because Sleep Powder makes Lilligant the incredibly powerful force it is early-game, the rest of the set is designed to make Lilligant strong during the mid- or late-game after Sleep Powder has been used. Leaf Storm, coupled with Lilligant's incredible base 110 Special Attack, is the main move that gives Lilligant much of her mid-game utility. Its humongous power in tandem with Lilligant's blistering Speed lets Lilligant act as a great revenge killer to boosting sweepers such as Rock Polish Aggron. Hidden Power Rock and Hidden Power Fire are used to support Lilligant's revenge killing prowess by giving her the coverage to hit specific troublesome threats super effectively. Hidden Power Rock handles Sigilyph, Entei, Moltres, Magmortar, and Scyther, while also giving Lilligant some nice neutral coverage, while Hidden Power Fire hits Durant, Escavalier, Klinklang, Magneton, Rotom-C, and Sceptile hard. Note that a neutral Leaf Storm still hits harder than a 2x super effective Hidden Power, so Leaf Storm is still Lilligant's best option in most cases. However, while the combination of Leaf Storm and Lilligant's Hidden Power of choice will let her excel mid-game, it is Healing Wish that makes Lilligant so incredibly useful late-game. When Lilligant is at low health, she can use Healing Wish to bring back a weakened partner to full health, which can easily cause the game to end right then and there as that fully-healed Pokemon tears through the opponent's weakened team.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With max Speed investment and a Timid nature, Lilligant is capable of outspeeding and threatening Choice Scarf-wielding Pokemon such as Rotom-C, while max Special Attack is used to make Leaf Storm and the Hidden Power of choice hit as hard as possible. If these Pokemon aren't especially problematic for your team, you can opt to use a Modest nature to make Leaf Storm all the more devastating. Alternatively, if you find that Lilligant merely serves more of a supportive role for your team, and you rarely end up using its offensive options, feel free to shift the Special Attack EVs into HP in order to let Lilligant last longer throughout the match.</p>

<p>As stated previously, Lilligant actually has a surprisingly broad support movepool that is often neglected, and with a Choice Scarf attached, many of these options become viable; even though Healing Wish is generally the best out of these, her other options should not be discounted. In particular, Stun Spore is an excellent move that can be used in the last slot. Thanks to Lilligant's incredible Speed, Lilligant will almost always be able to use Stun Spore during the match, and this can be used a myriad of ways. For example, Stun Spore can be used to cripple fast threats that are rampaging through your team, so long as Lilligant can outspeed them with a Choice Scarf, thus preventing them from continuing their sweep. Alternatively, Stun Spore can be used to hit sleep absorbers that might try to switch into Sleep Powder, which lets you preserve Sleep Powder so you can use it later in the match. If support moves are not your thing, and you are using this variant of Lilligant more offensively, Giga Drain can be used in the last slot to give Lilligant a reliable STAB move that has no drawbacks, until the time comes to use the primary ones listed on this set. Petal Dance is also an option over Leaf Storm if you want to give Lilligant the ability to sweep, although this greatly limits her ability to revenge kill threats.</p>

<p>This set is great at doing three main jobs for your team: stopping entry hazards from going up early in the match, nabbing a free switch in for one of your Pokemon while giving them to the opportunity to set up, and revenge killing annoying Rock-, Water-, and Ground-type threats. Therefore, Pokemon that despise entry hazards and can easily begin to decimate the opponent after a single free switch in are the best partners for this set. Notably, Zangoose and Swellow work particularly well. Both of these Pokemon absolutely despise entry hazards as they shorten their lifespan greatly, and the free switch that Lilligant is able to provide is more than enough of an opportunity for them to tear through the opponent's team with their boosted STAB Facades. Lilligant can even remove the likes of Alomomola, Steelix, and Regirock, which can all give these two Pokemon severe issues, and she can also lure out and destroy Escavalier with Hidden Power Fire.</p>

<p>However, this variant of Lilligant does have some issues. Grass-types, such as Amoonguss and Roselia, shrug off anything Lilligant throws at them, so if Sleep Powder has already been used up and these Pokemon are still alive, Lilligant's best choice will be to sacrifice itself with Healing Wish. Thus, you probably want to use Pokemon that are capable of destroying Grass-types with ease. Choice Band Entei, Emboar, and Moltres are all particularly good choices for this job; Lilligant's ability to deny early entry hazards benefits Moltres and Entei greatly, and Healing Wish helps these Pokemon very much as well. Because Emboar and Entei will be taking plenty of recoil damage from Flare Blitz, Healing Wish can help rid them of that residual damage late-game, while Healing Wish can give Moltres that one last switch in if Stealth Rock is up, which could be all it needs to take out the opponent's last few Pokemon. Sap Sipper Pokemon such as Miltank and Bouffalant might also be troublesome as they are immune to both Sleep Powder and Leaf Storm, so a Ghost-type such as Spiritomb or Rotom can be useful to help combat them.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Hidden Power Ice hits Dragon-types like Druddigon, but otherwise offers poor coverage as it leaves Lilligant helpless against both Fire- and Steel-types. Leftovers is another interesting option, trading an immediate power boost for passive healing, which lets Lilligant set up more consistently. One can opt for a bulky spread of 252 HP / 188 Def / 68 Spe with a Timid nature to set up more easily, but it is usually not worth the loss in power. Lilligant can make good use of Choice Scarf or Choice Specs, utilizing moves such as Leaf Storm and Healing Wish. A Sunny Day set taking advantage of Chlorophyll could work, but without dedicated sun, Quiver Dance is more effective, and in sun, a more powerful sweeper like Sawsbuck or Victreebel is a better choice in her stead. Lilligant has various support options, including Aromatherapy, Healing Wish, Leech Seed, and Synthesis as well as the less conventional Light Screen and Stun Spore. Sadly, her bulk is rather subpar for a purely defensive set, and she is prone to being outclassed by fellow Grass-types like Tangrowth and Ferroseed.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Because of Lilligant's reliance on Hidden Power for coverage, many Pokemon wall her by virtue of their typing alone. Fire-types come in freely if Lilligant lacks a Rock-type move&mdash;notable examples are Magmortar, who is even immune to Sleep Powder with Vital Spirit, and Emboar, who can tank any hit and OHKO with Flare Blitz. Likewise, if Lilligant is using Hidden Power Rock, Steel- and Grass-types switch in with little worry. Roselia and Amoonguss are bulky enough to take even Hidden Power Fire and can hit Lilligant with Sludge Bomb. Escavalier can use Sleep Talk to OHKO Lilligant and walls her if she lacks Hidden Power Fire; other Steel-types like Klinklang also accomplish the same thing. As Lilligant rarely carries Hidden Power Ice, Druddigon can almost always phaze her out or outright KO her. Sap Sippers such as Bouffalant, Miltank, and Sawsbuck gain an Attack boost from Giga Drain and Sleep Powder and care little about Lilligant's common coverage moves with the exception of Hidden Power Fire in Sawsbuck's case, while Drapion has the bulk to survive most hits and deals heavy damage back. Gallade takes even a +1 Giga Drain and can avoid sleep with a Lum Berry, while Choice Scarf Primeape bypasses sleep altogether with Vital Spirit.</p>

<p>Lilligant also has a fair share of defensive checks. Clefable is not 2HKOed by +1 Giga Drain and can stop her with status moves. Mandibuzz will take heavy damage from a possible Hidden Power Rock, but can use Whirlwind to reset Lilligant's boosts. Any bulky wall with Thunder Wave that can survive a hit can cripple Lilligant because she relies on Speed to sweep; paralysis is a dead stop. Cryogonal makes another excellent counter, taking hits with ease thanks to its phenomenal special bulk, as well as having access to Haze and Ice Beam.</p>