[Overview]

<p>"Why would I use Luxray when Electivire is available?" is often the first thing people think when they see Luxray; and it's no wonder why either. Luxray has a much lower Speed stat, which makes it harder for it to pose an immediate offensive threat, not to mention Electivire's greater coverage is also something that overshadows Luxray. However, Luxray has qualities Electivire could only wish for. With access to two great abilities and about the same offensive prowess as Electivire, Luxray makes an excellent wallbreaker and can easily top Electivire in that role. Intimidate and greater HP and Defense stats, with only slightly lower Special Defense, give Luxray better overall bulk, making it easier for it to take on walls, such as Steelix. Luxray was also blessed with Guts, making it semi-immune to status, as inflicting it with one would only increase Luxray's offensive power. Guts also enables Luxray to take on Dusknoir; something Electivire can't do. With these assets and a new STAB move in Wild Charge, Luxray is huge threat to any defensive Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Wallbreaker
move 1: Wild Charge
move 2: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Water
move 3: Crunch / Thunderbolt
move 4: Ice Fang / Superpower
item: Life Orb
ability: Intimidate / Guts
nature: Naughty
evs: 204 Atk / 100 SpA / 204 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Luxray makes a great wallbreaker with its amazing Attack stat and good Special Attack stat, and its abilities only increase Luxray's wallbreaking capabilities. Wild Charge is Luxray's best STAB move, and it will demolish everything that doesn't resist it or has a high Defense stat. Hidden Power Fire lets Luxray hit Steelix, Magneton, and Ferroseed for super effective damage, as well as other Grass-types, such as Tangrowth and Roselia, who resist Luxray's STAB moves. Crunch hits Psychic- and Ghost-types, most notably Uxie, for super effective damage. Crunch also lets Luxray hit Dusknoir hard, something Electivire can't defeat. While not that powerful, Ice Fang gives Luxray necessary coverage against Ground-types, and also hits Grass-types for super effective damage, which is especially useful against Roselia, whose Special Defense stat is higher than its Defense stat. Be aware that it won't do a ton of damage against Tangrowth though. Hidden Power Water still hits Steelix and other Ground-types, such as Sandslash, for super effective damage, and also hits Aggron for super effective damage if that's needed for your team. Superpower also hits Aggron, but lets Luxray hit Ferroseed and Magneton as well, something it can't do with Hidden Power Water. And last, Thunderbolt gives Luxray a specially-based STAB move, useful for hitting physically defensive Pokemon harder. The moves you opt to use are dependent on what your team needs, so choose wisely.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Signal Beam is a usable option, hitting Tangrowth hard if Luxray lacks Hidden Power Fire. Signal Beam won't hit Roselia for super effective damage, however, but it will hit Uxie and other Psychic-types. The choice of ability is mostly dependent on your own preference, but also depends on what your team needs. Intimidate will ease up Luxray's encounters with Pokemon such as Steelix, Aggron, and Sandslash. However, Guts will prevent the opponent from using status moves, as it will only power Luxray up; this is especially useful against Pokemon such as Dusknoir and Slowking, who usually carry moves that inflict status. The given EV spread enables Luxray to 2HKO standard Steelix 100% of the time with Hidden Power, while letting it outspeed minimum base 95 Speed Pokemon, such as Uxie and Drapion. The rest of the EVs go into Attack for maximum power output.</p>

<p>Paralysis support can help Luxray take down faster threats, such as Swellow and Archeops, easily KOing them with its STAB moves. Uxie is great user of Thunder Wave, whereas Amoonguss can paralyze opponents immune to Electric-type moves with Stun Spore. Entry hazards can help in taking down certain walls. Roselia can provide both Spikes and Toxic Spikes, while also helping Luxray take care of Ground-types. Uxie can also provide Stealth Rock alongside paralysis support. Cleric support can also help, as Luxray might take some serious damage and be inflicted with status. Clefable and Audino can both provide this with huge Wishes and Heal Bell support.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Luxray has a multitude of options, but they are either outclassed or not that viable at all. A Guts abuse set can be used with Flame Orb and Toxic Orb, with moves such as Wild Charge, Crunch, Facade, Ice Fang, and Fire Fang, but Luxray's limited physical movepool hinders it, and the lack of Superpower hurts. In the same vein, a Choice Band set is usable, as it provides access to Superpower and Intimidate, but Luxray should stick to wallbreaking. Defensive sets can be used with Luxray's decent defenses and access to Intimidate and moves such as Roar, Toxic, and Light Screen. A RestTalk set can also be used, but these kinds of defensive sets are not viable in this offensive metagame. It should also be noted that Sleep Talk is illegal with Guts. Howl is unfortunately Luxray's only boosting move, but a +1 boost is usually not enough. Luxray has access to a multitude of viable Electric-type moves, but they are mostly gimmicks. Discharge can be used over Thunderbolt for the paralysis chance, whereas Thunder can work in rain. Charge Beam can be used with Substitute to boost Luxray's good Special Attack stat, whereas Magnet Rise provides an immunity to Ground-type moves for five turns, but both are gimmicks at best. Lastly, there is Volt Switch, which can work on a Choice Scarf or Choice Specs set. The last two moves that can see some use are Snarl and Quick Attack. Snarl is a gimmicky way to lower the opponent's Special Attack, whereas Quick Attack can finish off weakened opponents, but it's really weak.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Since Luxray will always have coverage issues no matter what moves it carries, certain Pokemon check or counter it depending on which moves it runs. If Luxray lacks Hidden Power Fire or Superpower, Ferroseed has no trouble walling it. Ferroseed can then proceed to paralyze Luxray and drain its health with Leech Seed. Aggron can survive any physical attack from Luxray and OHKO it in return with Head Smash or Earthquake, but needs to be careful of special moves, especially Hidden Power Water and Thunderbolt. Tangrowth has a fairly easy time against all variants of Luxray not carrying either Hidden Power Fire or Signal Beam.</p>