[Overview]

<p>Misdreavus might seem like an odd choice when there's stiff competition from the premier spinblockers, Rotom and Spiritomb. Rotom generally does a better job spinblocking Kabutops and Spiritomb does a better job spinblocking Cryogonal, but Misdreavus acts as an in-between switch-in for both Rapid Spin users. Unfortunately, Misdreavus loses to both Rapid Spin users one-on-one and should only be used as a pivot switch. On the other hand, Misdreavus's NFE status it can make good use of Eviolite to boost its mediocre defenses. Misdreavus is generally seen on stall teams that need a spinblocker and a cleric. Thankfully, Misdreavus has a handful of support moves, for example Heal Bell, Will-O-Wisp, Thunder Wave, and Perish Song. Despite these positive characteristics, Misdreavus relies heavily on Eviolite and a simple Trick or Knock Off severely cripples Misdreavus. Misdreavus also has no reliable recovery, leaving it to rely heavily on Wish passing and Pain Split. Misdreavus is still a viable spinblocker to use, but it mustn't switch too much, as it can be worn down quickly.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Will-O-Wisp
move 2: Pain Split
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Heal Bell / Taunt / Perish Song
item: Eviolite
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Misdreavus is an excellent choice for a support Pokemon due to its decent defenses and wonderful support moves. Will-O-Wisp is an incredibly helpful move, as it cripples physical attackers such as Hitmonlee, Druddigon, and Kabutops. Pain Split allows Misdreavus to regain some health; it is especially useful against high HP Pokemon such as Slowking, Alomomola, and Tangrowth. Shadow Ball is Misdreavus's strongest STAB move and deals respectable damage to Psychic- and Ghost-types. Heal Bell is the recommended last move because it protects your team from ever-so-common status. Misdreavus also has base 85 Speed, which is quite fast for a support Pokemon, so it can Taunt other walls before they status it. However, if your team has trouble forcing out bulky Pokemon such as Cosmic Power Sigilyph, Alomomola, and Walrein, Perish Song is the optimal choice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Misdreavus still has other supporting moves, including Toxic, Thunder Wave, and Confuse Ray, which are all viable, and you may opt to use any of the moves if they support your team better than the ones listed above. Toxic is especially useful for dealing with Cryogonal, as it might faint from poison before it gets the chance to spin should Misdreavus have enough HP. Foul Play can be used in place of Shadow Ball because it does a considerable amount of damage to physical attackers such as Cinccino, Entei, and Zangoose. As Misdreavus gets worn down quickly, a RestTalk set could be used to have a better form of recovery. If you want to increase Misdreavus's Speed, 100 Speed EVs can be used to outspeed max base 55 Speed Pokemon such as Crawdaunt and Omastar and other Pokemon that aim for the same benchmark. Another alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 132 Def / 124 Spe with a Timid nature can be used to outspeed Adamant Kabutops and burn it while avoiding an OHKO from a +2 Stone Edge.</p>

<p>A Wish passer is recommended because Misdreavus doesn't have reliable recovery, so Alomomola and Clefable make good teammates. Misdreavus is perfectly capable of acting as a spinblocker, so Crustle and Ferroseed pair up nicely, spreading entry hazards. Regarding hazards, Misdreavus must be wary of multiple switch-ins since the premier spinners, Kabutops and Cryogonal, can wear it down. Bulky Steel-types such as Steelix and Ferroseed are good partners, as their typing allow them to combat Ghost- and Dark-type moves that threaten Misdreavus, while Misdreavus switches in on the Fighting-type moves aimed at them.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Misdreavus has plenty of other tricks up its sleeve, but alternative sets are either outclassed by another Pokemon or just ineffective. A Calm Mind set could be used, but due to a lack of reliable recovery, Misdreavus finds it hard to stay alive while boosting. The Perish Song trapper from GSC has a slight niche of trapping walls, but because Misdreavus has to stay in for Perish Song's countdown plus spend an extra two turns using Mean Look and Perish Song, it can have difficulty trapping even one Pokemon. Torment is an interesting move because you can force Choice-locked Pokemon to use Struggle, but ideally it's better to use if you're trying to Perish trap. A more offensive approach with Nasty Plot can be used, but with only base 85 Speed and Special Attack, Misdreavus is outsped by many Pokemon such as Archeops and Entei, while bulkier Pokemon such as Emboar, Escavalier, and Druddigon can live a hit and retaliate with their STAB moves. Memento seems appealing because it sacrifices Misdreavus to allow another teammate to set up, but it wastes Misdreavus's walling capability. Misdreavus also has access to Sunny Day, Rain Dance, and Trick Room, but it's generally outclassed by other Pokemon such as Volbeat and Slowking as a field effect setter.</p> 

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Misdreavus is not a difficult Pokemon to check. Bulky Fire-types such as Emboar and Entei are immune to Will-O-Wisp, take little damage from Shadow Ball, and can strike back with a strong Flare Blitz. Guts users such as Swellow and Hariyama can absorb Will-O-Wisps; the former is immune to Shadow Ball while the latter takes little damage from it. Powerful Dark- and Ghost-types such as Absol, Crawdaunt, and Rotom can hit Misdreavus with their STAB moves, but the former two must be wary of Will-O-Wisp and the latter must watch out for Shadow Ball. Strong special attackers including Typhlosion, Sceptile, Moltres, and Magmortar can take advantage of Misdreavus's uninvested Special Defense. Defensive Pokemon with recovery such as Poliwrath, RestTalk Lanturn, Amoonguss, and Cryogonal can stall out any Misdreavus that doesn't carry Perish Song or Taunt. Finally, Trick and Knock Off severely cripple Misdreavus, making it much easier to take down.</p>