[Overview]

<p>To put it bluntly, Munchlax is not a very good special wall. Despite having great HP and a usable Special Defense stat, the fact that it has no reliable recovery (not even Leftovers) and is easily worn down actually makes Munchlax a hindrance to most teams that it is used on. Physical attackers will have no trouble KOing Munchlax in a few hits, and even special attackers will wear it down as many of them carry a super effective Focus Blast. Being the slowest Pokemon in RU doesn't help its case either. What Munchlax can do is absorb sleep from the likes of Lilligant and Jynx, sponge hits from hail teams with its Thick Fat ability, and phaze with Whirlwind. However, this is not enough to justify Munchlax's use, as all of these roles are played much better by other RU Pokemon. Always consider your other options before using Munchlax. There are many.</p> 

[SET]
name: RestTalk
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Whirlwind
move 4: Body Slam
item: Eviolite
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Munchlax can wall strong Ice-types such as Glaceon and Rotom-F, but must be careful of getting Tricked by the latter. Rest is sadly Munchlax's only form of recovery. Sleep Talk, however, is useful when dealing with Sleep Powder Lilligant or Lovely Kiss Jynx, but Munchlax must be careful of Psyshock from Jynx. Against Pokemon such as Lilligant, Omastar, Moltres, and Cryogonal, Munchlax can use Whirlwind to get rid of the boosts of the former two or rack up entry hazard damage on the latter two. Body Slam is there in order to damage the few Pokemon that can't really touch Munchlax such as Cryogonal. Otherwise, Munchlax generally just sits there waiting for the opponent to whittle down its HP. Munchlax has no other utility outside of walling these few Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum HP and Special Defense allow Munchlax to not be worn down by special attackers as easily, specifically by Sceptile's and Magmortar's Focus Blasts. 76 Defense EVs can be used in order to avoid the 2HKO from Choice Band Entei's Flare Blitz after Stealth Rock. However, Munchlax will then be 2HKOed by Choice Specs Typhlosion's Focus Blast after Stealth Rock, which isn't really worth it. If Munchlax is being used at all, it is best paired with entry hazard users so it can rack up damage on the opponent with Whirlwind. Rapid Spin support and Pursuit users are necessary for Munchlax to succeed, as hazards will make its death much more quick and Psyshock users and Ghost-types such as Misdreavus will shut it down. All in all, you really shouldn't be trying to support Munchlax.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>All of Munchlax's other options are much worse than everything listed above. It can use Curse, but needs multiple boosts before being able to survive powerful physical hits, lacks recovery or strong coverage moves, and gets shut down by Taunt. It is good to know that Munchlax gets Double-Edge, Fire Punch, Ice Punch, ThunderPunch, Pursuit, Rock Slide, Zen Headbutt, and Counter in case you ever happen to face strange sets. However, Munchlax can't put any of these moves to good use.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Constant pressure from entry hazards and strong attackers will quickly dispose of Munchlax. For starters, every RU Fighting-type can OHKO Munchlax except for Poliwrath (unless it uses Focus Punch). Poliwrath can deal with Munchlax anyway through Circle Throw and Scald burns. Tricking Munchlax will rid it of its Eviolite, causing it to lose a significant amount of bulk. Rotom-C, Mesprit, and Spiritomb are good Trick users. Pokemon with Psyshock, such as Slowking, Uxie, and Sigilyph, can take advantage of Munchlax's low Defense and KO it. Almost every physical attacker can do this as well, especially those that resist Body Slam such as Escavalier, Aggron, and Rhydon. Taunt from Pokemon such as Aerodactyl, Qwilfish, and Mandibuzz will prevent Munchlax from recovering, making it easier than it already is to take down.</p>