[Overview]

<p>Murkrow has always lurked in the shadows; whatever it could do, there was always something that did it better. This is no longer true, as with the introduction of Eviolite, Murkrow has just enough bulk to take a hit. This, along with its new ability, Prankster, and a great support movepool allows the mobster to compete in the RU tier as the most annoying little night creature you have ever seen. With a priority Taunt, Eviolite-boosted defenses, and access to little tricks, such as Perish Song, Toxic, FeatherDance, and Roost, Murkrow is an ideal stallbreaker. Don't get too excited though, as it is still far from Al Capone. As a Flying-type, Murkrow has many common weaknesses, not to mention a major case of four moveslot syndrome, meaning that it will be extremely annoying to pick the moves it should have. Don't let this discourage you; if your team needs a stallbreaker, or if you just like to annoy the opponent, Murkrow is the Pokemon for you.</p> 

[SET]
name: Perish Trapper
move 1: Perish Song
move 2: Substitute / Taunt
move 3: Mean Look
move 4: Roost
item: Eviolite
ability: Prankster
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With its defenses boosted by Eviolite, and access to Mean Look and Perish Song, Murkrow makes an ideal Perish Trapper. Thanks to Prankster, Murkrow is guaranteed to get a Perish Song off. Once Murkrow uses Mean Look, the opponent is put on a timer of three turns. If the opposing Pokemon is unable to take it down before the timer runs out, the Pokemon in question will experience a horrid death. Substitute and Taunt are essential to this set; Taunt lets Murkrow stop status and enemy Taunts, while Substitute lets Murkrow take powerful attacks and also block the status moves thrown its way. Roost is an essential ingredient in a perish trapper set, allowing Murkrow to recover damage, and making sure it can come back to the battlefield again and again. The given EVs maximize its physical bulk, while letting Murkrow switch into Stealth Rock four times without fainting. Specially bulky and balanced EV spreads can also be used, but without FeatherDance, they pale in comparison to the physically defensive set.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Murkrow's checkmating ability is nearly unmatched by any Pokemon in the RU tier, and it is a great phazer to things such as Gallade, who will be forced to switch even if Murkrow gets KOed. Because Murkrow will be switching in and out a lot, Rapid Spin support is required for Murkrow to live up to its full potential. Thunder Wave can be used over Taunt or Substitute to cripple an opposing Pokemon, but it leaves Murkrow vulnerable to Taunt and status. Murkrow works well with Pokemon like Clefable and Gallade, as they do a great job at tanking special hits for it, which is especially beneficial since Murkrow has many weaknesses. FeatherDance is an option in the second slot as well; if using FeatherDance, a specially bulky set becomes viable, as does a balanced EV spread.</p>

[SET]
name: Stallbreaker
move 1: Taunt
move 2: Toxic / Thunder Wave
move 3: FeatherDance / Foul Play
move 4: Roost
item: Eviolite
ability: Prankster
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set turns Murkrow into the most annoying thing imaginable; a combination of Eviolite, Prankster, and Roost, make it extremely difficult to take down. Taunt is arguably the most important move on this set, preventing strategies such as stall and Baton Pass from working. In addition, it also prevents Murkrow from being statused or Taunted. Toxic gives Murkrow an effective way of damaging non Poison- and Steel-types, whereas Thunder Wave lets it paralyze a threatening sweeper. FeatherDance is good for crippling physical sweepers and allowing Murkrow to take physical hits better. If you're running Foul Play, a physically defensive spread is recommended because there is no room for FeatherDance to cushion you from attacks. Roost is very important for letting Murkrow come back for more again and again, it also removes Murkrow's main weaknesses for a turn, allowing it to stand up to Pokemon to whom it would usually fall.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Despite the stalling ability of this set, Murkrow is brought to a standstill by Steel- and Poison-types. If you're only running Toxic, Pokemon who can take down Steel- and Poison-types are recommended. Hidden Power Ground is also an option in the third slot for taking out those Steel- and Poison-types. Physical walls are excellent partners to this set because there are some physical attackers Murkrow can't handle, even after a FeatherDance. In particular, Steelix makes an excellent partner as it's immune to Electric, is basically immune to Rock, and doesn't mind most Ice-type attacks. A third partner can be used to deal with the remaining weaknesses in your core. Slowking makes a great partner with both Steelix and Murkrow, sponging Fire-type moves and taking the special attacks the pair can't handle. When FeatherDance isn't used, a physically defensive EV spread is recommended, as most of Murkrow's weaknesses are primarily special attacks. Substitute can be used over Taunt to block weaker attacks, but it turns Murkrow into Taunt bait.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Murkrow's options are a bag of tricks. A parafusion set is viable, but it is outclassed by its other sets, especially the stallbreaker set. Murkrow can use a Life Orb set to good effect, but it is outclassed by its own evolution, who is superior in every way but Speed. A Calm Mind and Roost set is possible, but combined with Murkrow's relative frailty and reliance on Hidden Power Flying, it is not the best option. Haze stops set-up sweepers in their tracks, but Taunt accomplishes the same thing most of the time. Mirror Move is a very gimmicky option to revenge kill sweepers, especially Ghost- and Dragon-types, such as Druddigon and Rotom, but it is usually inferior to other options, as without investment, it will rarely KO. Night Shade can be used to deal consistent damage, but Murkrow has trouble finding a moveslot for it. Murkrow can also set up weather, but it will have to sacrifice its Eviolite for eight turns of weather, which is never a good idea. Murkrow has many other gimmicky options, such as Tailwind, Torment, and Whirlwind, but Murkrow cannot afford to give any of its move slots for one.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Murkrow, despite its only average bulk, is surprisingly hard to take down due to its Eviolite. Regardless, there are still things that can take it on. The best way to take down Murkrow is with brute force, especially from types to which it is weak. Aggron is immune to Toxic, and crushes Murkrow with Head Smash. Regirock is immune to FeatherDance and kills off Murkrow with Rock Slide or Stone Edge. In general, Steel- and Poison-types stop the stallbreaker set cold, while Pokemon with Soundproof, such as Electrode and Mr. Mime, stop the Perish Trapper set cold. If you can remove Murkrow's Eviolite through methods such as Knock Off or Trick, Murkrow loses its precious bulk and is much easier to take down.</p>