[Overview]

<p>When looking at Omastar's stats, it seems to be just another one of many bulky Water-type attackers. However, Omastar has access to what is arguably the best boosting move in the game, Shell Smash. With this gem of a move, Omastar is able to fix its low Speed and boost its already great Special Attack stat to incredible levels in just one turn of setup. Omastar also has access to both Stealth Rock and Spikes, thus allowing it to step outside of its normal sweeping role with decent success. It can even use Shell Smash along with one of these entry hazards to make for quite the flexible Pokemon. Omastar has some very useful resistances as well, including an all-important 4x Fire-type resistance that lets it use Entei, one of the most common Pokemon in the tier, as easy setup bait.</p>

<p>However, Omastar is held back by a few glaring flaws that prevent it from dominating the tier. Its Speed is low; even after a Shell Smash boost, Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Rotom and Manectric can still effortlessly revenge kill Omastar and limit the damage it can do in a match. A mediocre Special Defense combined with weaknesses to common attacking types such as Grass, Electric, and Fighting makes it quite difficult for Omastar to successfully set up and pull off a sweep. Nevertheless, Omastar is a very potent sweeping threat to look out for in RU. Omastar only requires one turn to lay waste to entire teams, so tread lightly around it.</p>

[SET]
name: Shell Smash
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Surf / Hydro Pump
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Grass
item: Lum Berry / Life Orb
ability: Weak Armor
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the set that made Omastar the feared sweeping threat it is today. With just a single turn, Omastar is capable of boosting its Speed and Special Attack to very threatening levels, and it's all thanks to Shell Smash. After using this, Omastar can make use of its solid three move coverage to ravage the opposing team. Omastar's STAB move comes down to the age old argument of power vs. accuracy. Since this Omastar is used more as a sweeper, Surf is preferred for the reliability it brings and still has sufficient power in most situations. Hydro Pump is an option in order to muscle past Pokemon like Cryogonal and Uxie, but an untimely miss can mark the premature end of a sweep. Ice Beam is useful to hit the many Grass-types in RU, including Rotom-C, Sceptile, and Amoonguss. Hidden Power Grass rounds off Omastar's coverage and allows it to deal with opposing Water-types such as Slowking, Lanturn, and Alomomola.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Timid is the preferred nature to ensure Omastar can outspeed Rotom-C, the most common Choice Scarf user in the tier, after a Shell Smash boost. Weak Armor is the recommended ability as it grants Omastar an extra Speed boost if it manages to come in on a physical attack, such as Entei's Flare Blitz. The item choice is a bit difficult as there are plenty of options. However, Lum Berry and Life Orb are generally the best choices. Lum Berry grants more leniency to Omastar, allowing it to set up on more defensive threats that might use status to cripple Omastar. Life Orb is also a decent option, as it lets Omastar sweep sooner since special walls won't need to be weakened as much with the boost in power. Earth Power can be used for a stronger hit on Lanturn, but it has very little use outside of this. Substitute is an option to get around Sucker Punch users such as Absol and Spiritomb, but this restricts Omastar's coverage. White Herb is an alternative item choice to negate the defense drops from using Shell Smash, but it's actually counter-productive with the defense drop incurred from Weak Armor. Lastly, Omastar can use Swift Swim should it be used on a rain team. However, you should only use Swift Swim if you plan on using a rain team, as you won't run into many opposing rain teams in RU.</p>

<p>Choice Scarf Rotom and Choice Scarf Manectric are perhaps the best answers to this set thanks to their ability to outspeed and OHKO Omastar at +2, so having a check or counter for them is highly recommended to remove them from play. Roselia and Druddigon are good responses to these threats as well as many other Grass- and Electric-types that could become problematic. Roselia's access to Spikes and its Fire-type weakness make it a very appealing option as it attracts the likes of Emboar and Entei like a magnet. Special attacker Manectric can absorb Volt Switches and Thunderbolts from any Electric-type attempting to revenge kill Omastar and use the Lightningrod boost it gains to facilitate its own sweep. Pursuit support can be helpful to weaken or outright KO Slowking. Escavalier has great synergy with Omastar as it can check any Grass-type without Hidden Power Fire and its 4x Fire weakness can lure out Fire-type moves for Omastar to set up on. Specially defensive Gallade can tank any hit other than Life Orb Hydro Pump and KO back with Drain Punch, so Sigilyph and Braviary are good choices to deal with it. Hitmonlee is also a very serious threat as it can revenge kill Omastar with a Fighting Gem-boosted Mach Punch and attempt to counter-sweep with its Unburden-boosted Speed. Mesprit can not only check Hitmonlee, but it can also easily handle most other Fighting-types, including specially defensive Gallade and the rarer Choice Scarf Primeape.</p>

[SET]
name: Suicide Lead
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Scald / Hydro Pump
move 3: Icy Wind / Ice Beam
move 4: Stealth Rock / Shell Smash
item: Focus Sash
ability: Weak Armor
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Instead of using a free turn to set up Shell Smash and sweep the opposing team, this Omastar uses free turns to litter the other side of the field with entry hazards. Omastar might lack the Speed of other fast Spikers such as Smeargle and Scolipede, but a combination of Weak Armor and Icy Wind can mitigate this. Spikes is the main entry hazard on this set due to its lesser distribution and Omastar's ability to get two layers up almost every time. Scald generally gets the nod for Omastar's STAB move as the burn chance can deter physical attackers from attempting to set up on it. Hydro Pump is an option for the much greater power, but Omastar's primary concern should be to get entry hazards up. Icy Wind is nice to slow down faster Pokemon switching in such as Manectric, Sceptile, and Galvantula. Ice Beam is a solid alternative to get the harder hit on Pokemon such as Druddigon and Amoonguss, which are already slower than Omastar. The last move gives Omastar added utility. Stealth Rock allows Omastar to support its team even more and free up a teamslot to cover other things. However, Shell Smash is an option if you don't need Omastar to use Stealth Rock. Although it looks odd, Shell Smash allows Omastar to weaken the opposing team and have more flexibility in how it's played outside of the lead position. Note that you should always use Ice Beam if you opt for Shell Smash as you will now have a way of boosting Omastar's Speed reliably.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>This set simply aims to set up as many entry hazards as possible, so maximum investment in Special Attack and Speed is used to aid this. Focus Sash ensures that Omastar can survive an attack and possibly get an extra layer of hazards up before it goes down. Weak Armor is the preferred ability as it boosts Omastar's Speed if it gets hit by a physical move. This, when used in conjunction with Icy Wind, allows Omastar to handle most offensive leads such as Scolipede. Earth Power is an option to hit the likes of Qwilfish, Kabutops, and Lanturn hard. Toxic Spikes can provide extra entry hazard support, but Qwilfish is usually better for the dual Spiking role. Surf is a middle ground between Scald and Hydro Pump, but the burn chance of Scald or the raw power of Hydro Pump is generally preferred.</p>

<p>Omastar fares well against most leads, but there is one that it is absolutely powerless against: Smeargle. Due to Spore, Smeargle can immediately put Omastar to sleep and begin littering Omastar's side of the field with entry hazards. For this reason, Sleep Talk users such as Emboar and Entei make for very solid options. Magmortar and Primeape have Vital Spirit to avoid sleep and can easily take out Smeargle. Substitute users such as Gallade and Sceptile can use Substitute to block Spore and do serious damage to the opposing team. However, these Pokemon need to be careful of Whirlwind. Pokemon with Sap Sipper, such as Bouffalant and Sawsbuck, are also good choices to deal with Smeargle. Since this set will generally set up hazards and go down early in the match, a spinblocker is useful to protect the entry hazards Omastar lays down. Spiritomb matches up extremely well with Cryogonal and a Foul Play Spiritomb can cause Kabutops some major issues as well. Bulky Rotom is a more reliable answer to Kabutops. Pokemon that can take advantage of the Spikes support Omastar gives are good teammates. Rotom-C is able to come in on Ground-, Electric-, and Grass-type moves aimed at Omastar and can force multiple switches with its STAB Volt Switch. Choice Band Druddigon is a great Sleep Talk user and it will find it much easier to break through its checks with Spikes support. The deal is made all the better since Druddigon can come in on Electric- and Grass-type attacks aimed at Omastar to begin unleashing its powerful attacks. Moltres and Magmortar can break through Lanturn much more quickly with Spikes support. Finally, Stealth Rock users are solid options should Omastar opt to use Shell Smash. Mesprit is immune to Ground-type moves and resists Fighting-type moves while also having U-turn to bring Omastar in safely. Lastly, Steelix can use Roar to rack up residual damage thanks to Omastar's Spikes.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Stealth Rock / Toxic Spikes
move 3: Scald
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Leftovers
ability: Shell Armor
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Omastar's great base 125 Defense and key resistances to Fire-, Normal-, and Flying-type moves to check dangerous threats and supply entry hazards for its team. Spikes is the main entry hazard on this set, as it sets Omastar apart from other physical walls, such as Rhydon and Steelix. Stealth Rock comes next as it makes it difficult for many of the threats Omastar checks to outlast it, since many are weak to Stealth Rock. Scald is Omastar's STAB move with the ever-infuriating 30% chance to burn the opponent. Ice Beam rounds off the set by giving Omastar a way to try and fend off Grass-types that try to come in on it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Omastar's physical bulk in order to check the likes of Entei and Swellow more reliably. Although none of Omastar's abilities are particularly useful on this set, Shell Armor is the best one to use if only to take untimely critical hits out of the equation. Omastar does have access to Toxic Spikes, but the dual Spiker role is done better by Qwilfish thanks to its better set of resistances and Intimidate.</p>

<p>This Omastar struggles to fend off most sleep inducers, especially Amoonguss, so having a way to combat sleep is highly recommended. Emboar and Choice Band Druddigon are great Sleep Talk users that handle most sleep inducers, including Lilligant, with ease. Bouffalant has Sap Sipper to benefit from Spore and Sleep Powder and its all around bulk lets it handle most sleep inducers as well. Phazers and Volt Switch and U-turn users are recommended to take advantage of the Spikes support Omastar provides. Steelix and specially defensive Druddigon are good phazers. Rotom-C, Braviary, and Manectric can all use Volt Switch or U-turn to force their checks and counters to take repeated Spikes damage. Spiritomb is a good teammate to protect Omastar's entry hazards as it can easily handle Cryogonal and Kabutops reliably, although a Spiritomb with Foul Play will be better equipped on average to handle Kabutops.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Most of the relevant options in Omastar's movepool have already been covered, but there are a couple of other things to consider. Omastar could use Choice Specs to hit really hard right off the bat, but Omastar will generally want to use a free turn to set up a Shell Smash or a layer of entry hazards. AncientPower and Hidden Power Rock can be used for a Rock-type STAB move, but this is usually not needed due to Omastar's great three move coverage. Knock Off can be used on the defensive set to remove items off of Pokemon such as Roselia and Ferroseed. Hidden Power Fire is an option if you're really having issues against Jynx or Ferroseed, but Hidden Power Grass is usually too important to give up.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>When trying to counter Omastar, it's generally best to use a Choice Scarf Pokemon that can outspeed and OHKO it at +2. Rotom and Manectric are the best two options for this as their STAB Volt Switches can OHKO Omastar or build momentum for their team if Omastar switches out. Primeape isn't a very common Pokemon, but it can outspeed +2 Omastar if it has a Choice Scarf equipped and it can defeat Omastar with STAB Close Combat. However, they will fail to outspeed if Omastar is able to get a Weak Armor boost on top of a Shell Smash boost. Lanturn is a solid defensive response as it can survive even a +2 Life Orb-boosted Hidden Power Grass and proceed to OHKO Omastar with Volt Switch. Depending on the set it's running, Slowking can handle Omastar decently well. Slowking's Choice Specs set only loses to Life Orb variants while defensive Slowking only loses to Lum Berry variants of the Shell Smash set. Roselia fears a +2 Life Orb Ice Beam, but it can take any other hit and proceed to OHKO Omastar with its STAB Giga Drain. If Omastar lacks a Life Orb, Jynx can check it thanks to its immunity to Water and Ice-type resistance. Ferroseed can beat Omastar if it packs Seed Bomb, but both must be wary of the rare Hidden Power Fire.</p>

<p>A powerful priority user can limit the damage Omastar can cause. Hitmonlee and Hitmonchan are the most notable since their STAB Mach Punch can hit Omastar for super effective damage. Hitmonlee is also able to threaten with a counter-sweep with Unburden-boosted Speed after it activates its Fighting Gem with Mach Punch. Absol and Spiritomb can utilize their powerful STAB Sucker Punch, but they will need Omastar to be weakened a little due to its high base 125 Defense. Each of Omastar's hazard sets can be limited through the use of Rapid Spin. Kabutops and Cryogonal are by far the best spinners in the tier and Cryogonal even matches up well against Omastar in most cases. Grass-types such as Amoonguss, Lilligant, and Roselia can easily threaten the defensive set due to its lack of offensive investment. Finally, you can always resort to constant offensive pressure to limit the chances Omastar has to set up. However, you must be very careful if you rely on Pokemon like Entei and Swellow to provide this general pressure, as Omastar can easily use their STAB moves as setup bait, and all Omastar needs is one turn to wreak havoc for the rest of the match.</p>