[Overview]

<p>Persian is a decidedly average Pokemon; its stats are poor both offensively and defensively, its movepool is average, and its Normal typing is nothing to be proud of. Despite this, Persian boasts a handsome base 115 Speed stat, a great ability in Technician, and access to Fake Out, U-turn, and Taunt. Persian also has access to Nasty Plot, Swift, Water Pulse, and Hidden Power to form a special attacking set, and when boosted by Technician, it's a nasty surprise for the opponent. It's a mystery why Persian was always Giovanni's favorite companion, but it sure is classy. If you're looking for something new and unique, why not give our feline friend a go?</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Fake Out
move 2: Return / Bite
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Taunt
item: Life Orb
ability: Technician
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set's goal is to hit the opponent with a Technician-, Life Orb-, and STAB-boosted Fake Out, and then get the hell out of there with U-turn. Return is Persian's most reliable STAB move, while Bite hits Ghost-types super effectively. Furthermore, Bite receives a nifty boost from Technician. Taunt is the best Persian can do against physical walls, such as Tangrowth, and it completely shuts down Ferroseed and Baton Pass Ninjask. This set isn't designed to sweep; it's designed to score free hits and gain momentum for your team.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Hypnosis can be used over Taunt in the last slot, but its poor accuracy is a letdown—use it with Hone Claws by all means, but they shouldn't be used on this set. As this set is great at forcing switches, Pokemon that can set up entry hazards are good teammates. Ferroseed can set up Spikes and Stealth Rock, Scolipede can set up Toxic Spikes, and Uxie is the prime choice for setting up Stealth Rock. Pokemon that take advantage of Taunted walls are decent teammates; although this is a rather vague description, many Pokemon fit into this category, including stat boosting Pokemon, Pokemon weak to entry hazards, such as Moltres, and anything afraid of status. If you feel really daring, Choice Scarf Rotom works well with Persian to make a decent offensive combination; it can also switch into Persian's Fighting-type weakness while Persian is immune to Ghost-type moves aimed at Rotom. As this set employs a "hit and run" strategy, it's a good idea to carry a Rapid Spin user to remove entry hazards; Sandslash and Cryogonal are good teammates for that reason.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Swift
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Water Pulse
item: Life Orb
ability: Technician
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This pretty feline has some nasty tricks up its sleeve; with Nasty Plot, Persian's Special Attack is raised to usable levels, giving it potential as a sweeper. The idea is to bring Persian into an opponent that will switch out, boost its Special Attack with Nasty Plot, and attempt a sweep with boosted attacks. What Persian has over other sweepers in the tier is a decent Speed stat, Technician, and the ability to force switches when opponents predict the ever-so-common Fake Out. Swift is Persian's STAB move of choice and is boosted by Technician, Thunderbolt provides near-perfect type coverage, and Water Pulse drenches Rhydon and Golurk.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Hidden Power Fighting or Hidden Power Ground can hit Magneton super effectively; however, bear in mind that Hidden Power Fighting lowers Persian's Speed IV. Hidden Power Ice is another viable option as it provides great type coverage alongside Thunderbolt. Hidden Power shouldn't exceed 60 Base Power if you want a Technician boost, but this means sacrificing more IVs. Dark Pulse is another viable option to hit Golurk and Rotom super effectively, but it doesn't provide great coverage. Specially defensive Pokemon, such as Clefable, Slowking, and Mandibuzz, are problematic, making physical sweepers, such as Hitmonchan, Absol, and Rhydon, good teammates. SubSplit Rotom is another good partner as it can wear down bulky walls and finish off weakened Pokemon. Magneton traps Ferroseed and annihilates it with Hidden Power Fire, while Lilligant and Tangrowth take care of Quagsire and Lanturn. Entry hazards help Persian sweep, making Qwilfish, Sandslash, and Accelgor good teammates.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As previously mentioned, Persian's movepool isn't brilliant for a Normal-type. Switcheroo can be used with a Choice item or status Orb, but Lopunny is much better for this role due to Klutz. Icy Wind receives a boost from Technician and lowers the opponent's Speed, but other than that it's a pretty bad move. Knock Off will render any NFE Pokemon holding Evoilite useless, and it also screws with Choice item users. Persian's physical movepool isn't too bad, consisting of Night Slash, Seed Bomb, Gunk Shot, and Aerial Ace; unfortunately, Persian's low Attack stat makes it difficult to pull off. Hone Claws and Work Up can raise Persian's Attack along with its accuracy or Special Attack respectively, but Persian is better off with Nasty Plot or a scouting set. Charm and Screech can lower the opponent's stats, but they're usually a waste of a moveslot as the opponent can just switch. Thanks to its high Speed, Persian can pull off a Rain Dance set with Thunder and Water Pulse; the only problem with that is Persian's frailty, making Uxie a better choice for this role. Finally, Power Gem hit Moltres super effectively, but it doesn't have much use outside of that.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best way to check Persian is by overcoming its blistering Speed. Anything with a priority move can dent Persian; Spiritomb and Absol have access to Sucker Punch, Hitmonchan has access to Mach Punch, and Kabutops drenches Persian with Aqua Jet. Choice Scarf users can revenge kill Persian with little trouble; Braviary can destroy Persian with Superpower, while Rotom can hit Persian with Volt Switch. Of course, Accelgor, Sceptile, Aerodactyl, and Whimsicott are already faster than Persian, but they need to watch out for Fake Out or switching into Nasty Plot-boosted attacks. Physical walls, such as Ferroseed, Steelix, and Tangrowth, can take on the first set with ease, but they have problems with Taunt. Similarly, Clefable and Lanturn can take on the Nasty Plot set, but repeated hits will chip away at their health and kill them slowly and painfully.</p>