[Overview]

<p>Despite its NFE status, Piloswine holds a strong niche in RU as a great tank. Thanks to Eviolite, Piloswine's decent 100 / 80 / 60 defenses reach formidable levels, allowing it to take many hits. Piloswine is no slouch offensively either, as it has a solid base 100 Attack and great Ground / Ice coverage to back it up. Thick Fat is a boon for Piloswine as well, as it neuters its Fire weakness and grants it an Ice resistance. However, Piloswine has its flaws. Its typing, while granting some decent resistances, gives it many weaknesses to common attacking types such as Water, Grass, and Fighting. Secondly, Piloswine is extremely slow, meaning it is forced to take damage before it reacts. Finally, Piloswine lacks any reliable recovery, not even Leftovers, so it will be worn down fairly easily by repeated hits over the course of the match. Despite these flaws, Piloswine is still a solid Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Icicle Crash / Icicle Spear
move 4: Ice Shard / Stone Edge
item: Eviolite
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Piloswine's best bet at working well in RU. With solid bulk, a decent Attack stat, Stealth Rock, and good dual STABs, Piloswine can function as a solid tank that can take strong hits while dishing them out. While it faces stiff competition from Rhydon, Piloswine stands out with its resistance to Ice, lack of a Ground weakness, priority, and greater special bulk. Piloswine also checks threats such as Absol and Jynx rather well. Stealth Rock is a great asset to any team, and Piloswine does well at setting it up with its decent typing and bulk. Earthquake provides an obligatory Ground STAB and hits decently hard off of Piloswine's base 100 Attack stat. Icicle Crash is chosen as the primary Ice STAB due to its decent Base Power. Icicle Spear, however, is useful to break Substitutes from Pokemon such as Sceptile, and also provides perfect accuracy. Finally, Ice Shard is chosen as priority to pick off weakened opponents, and it also patches up Piloswine's low Speed stat decently. However, Stone Edge is usable if priority is not needed; it gives Piloswine the edge over Moltres and Cryogonal.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is fairly simple; it aims to make the most of Piloswine's bulk and decent power. However, a more defensive EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD with an Impish nature can be used to allow Piloswine to take hits better while still hitting decently hard, although the extra bulk is rarely needed. An Adamant nature is chosen to make the most of Piloswine's offensive options. Thick Fat is a great ability, as it neuters Piloswine's Fire weakness and grants it a resistance to Ice, further complementing its tanking abilities. Stone Edge is a viable option over Stealth Rock if the move is not needed.</p>

<p>Roselia is a good teammate; it resists the Water- and Grass-type moves that Piloswine despises, while Piloswine resists Ice-type moves. Roselia also can set up Spikes to allow Piloswine to nab more needed KOs. Piloswine has no recovery, not even Leftovers, so Wish support is ideal; Clefable and Alomomola are both viable options. Misdreavus pairs up well and can absorb Fighting-type attacks aimed at Piloswine while preventing the removal of Stealth Rock; it can also cure Piloswine of status with Heal Bell. Offensive Pokemon that benefit from the Stealth Rock that Piloswine sets up are good teammates; Rotom-C and Lilligant are both good examples, handling bulky Water-types for Piloswine.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Piloswine has some unorthodox options that can be used to some effect. Superpower is a powerful move, but it provides no notable coverage aside from Ferroseed. Toxic is a usable option to wear down defensive Pokemon that Piloswine is unable to break through, such as Uxie and Cryogonal, but it is more often than not a waste of a moveslot. Piloswine has access to Curse, meaning it can act as a powerful and bulky attacker, but it will rarely find the time to boost, and its lack of reliable recovery really lets it down. Quite ironically, Piloswine has access to Light Screen and Reflect to soften up hits. Endeavor in conjunction with a Focus Sash and Ice Shard can work, but this strategy is nothing more than a gimmick. Amnesia is a decent option to boost Piloswine's middling Special Defense, but this is generally not a worthwhile investment overall. Roar is usable for Piloswine to shuffle the opposing team, and this complements Stealth Rock well. Rest and Sleep Talk are Piloswine's only form of recovery, but Piloswine is then strapped for moveslots. Furthermore, the sleep mechanics of the fifth generation make this a bad idea. Finally, Piloswine can go more on the offensive with either a Life Orb or a Choice Band, but is too slow to make good use of the items.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although Piloswine's great coverage and bulk make it hard to counter, there are several good ways to check it. Sceptile, Rotom-C, and Lilligant cannot come in on Icicle Crash or Ice Shard, but their Grass STAB can make quick work out of Piloswine. Poliwrath and Alomomola are bulky enough to take most of Piloswine's attacks and can retaliate with Scald or Waterfall, respectively. Ludicolo, Feraligatr, and Samurott can all check Piloswine decently, although the latter two must be wary of coming in on Earthquake. Defensive variants of Cryogonal can stall Piloswine with Toxic while spinning away Stealth Rock. Escavalier and Slowking both have enough bulk to take hits from Piloswine and can retaliate with Iron Head or Surf. Moltres can come in on Piloswine that lack Stone Edge and make quick work of them with its power. Durant, Gallade, and Hitmonlee all hit Piloswine super effectively but must be wary of coming in on Piloswine's attacks.</p>