[Overview]

<p>When one thinks of bulky Water-types in RU, Quagsire isn't the first Pokemon that comes to mind, and it shouldn't be. Quagsire is largely outclassed by other bulky Water-types, such as Slowking, Alomomola, and Poliwrath, due to their superior typing and supportive capabilities. Moreover, Quagsire's mediocre defenses often leave it 2HKOed by a vast array of neutral STABs, such as Medicham's Hi Jump Kick and Druddigon's Outrage. However, it does have one saving grace: its ability Unaware. Like other bulky Water-types, Quagsire can deal with Pokemon such as Aggron, Entei, and Aerodactyl, but Unaware gives it the added benefit of being able to take on Calm Mind users, such as Uxie (without Giga Drain), as well as Swords Dance users such as Gallade. Keep in mind, though, that while Quagsire can work in the right situations, its walling capabilities are far too specific to be considered for most teams. When deciding on a bulky Water-type, there are plenty of other options to consider over Quagsire.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Recover
move 2: Scald
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Toxic / Encore
item: Leftovers
ability: Unaware
nature: Relaxed
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Recover and Unaware, Quagsire has the ability to wall threatening setup sweepers such as Swords Dance + Lum Berry Gallade. Scald is Quagsire's most important attack, as it patches up its Defense by potentially crippling a physical attacker with a burn. Earthquake is Quagsire's best shot at inflicting any serious damage on Fire-types, such as Magmortar and Entei, and makes good use out of its higher Attack stat. Toxic works exceptionally well with Recover, as the combination gives Quagsire the opportunity to outstall a plethora of defensive Pokemon such as Slowking and Uxie. Alternatively, Encore works well by snatching momentum away from setup sweepers and team supporters who attempt to set up on Quagsire. Encore also helps stop Lilligant and Sceptile from boosting, forces entry hazard users into using Stealth Rock repeatedly, and potentially limits dual screens users, such as Uxie, to one screen.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Quagsire can make use of a few other moves to use in the final slot. Ice Beam can be used to dent Grass-type switch-ins, Druddigon, and offensive Sigilyph. Yawn can also prove to be useful, functioning as a phazing move, though it can sometimes interfere with Scald. Quagsire can also opt for a specially defensive spread so that it can beat Calm Mind users with greater ease; however, it's best to use Quagsire to wall physical attackers, not special attackers.</p>

<p>Quagsire often lures in Grass-types, and as such, Sap Sipper Pokemon, such as Miltank and Bouffalant, make great partners for their ability to absorb these threats' STAB moves. Fire-types also work as acceptable partners for their ability to dispose of Grass-types; Moltres and Entei are good choices, as Quagsire can take any Rock-type moves aimed at them. Ironically, Quagsire can even work well with Grass-types themselves. Amoonguss is useful for its ability to cover Quagsire's Grass-type weakness, while Roselia can set up Spikes or Toxic Spikes to help Quagsire stall. Defensive Steel-types, such as Magneton, work quite well with Quagsire too, as they can take Grass-type moves aimed at it and it can sponge the Fire-type attacks that they loathe. Status afflictions severely cripple Quagsire, as it will be unable to stay in and repeatedly tank hits. To fix this issue, pairing Quagsire up with clerics, such as Clefable and Roselia, can prove to be useful.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Water Absorb is a great ability, as it allows Quagsire to counter Kabutops; however, Quagsire relies on Unaware to establish a niche in RU, so Water Absorb is generally not recommenced. Ice Punch can be used to hit Grass-types on the switch, but it's too weak to warrant much use. Stone Edge can be used to OHKO Moltres and Scyther. Due to Unaware ignoring Attack boosts, Swagger can be used to annoy the opponent. Quagsire often finds itself 2HKOed by quite a few physical attackers, so it can utilize Counter to get a surprise KO on Pokemon such as Medicham. Curse can be used in an attempt to sweep, though this version of Quagsire is prone to luring in Toxic and Scald users. Protect can do a few things: help Quagsire Toxic stall (especially when entry hazards are down), accumulate Leftovers recovery, and scout the moves of its opponent. Finally, Stockpile boosts both of Quagsire's defenses, which can make it impenetrable after a few boosts should the opponent lack strong Grass-type attacks or Toxic.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Grass-types have no difficulty inflicting large amounts of damage on Quagsire. Sceptile, Lilligant, and even Ferroseed can use Quagsire as setup bait. Although, all three must be wary of Encore. Amoonguss and Roselia are solid defensive Grass-types that counter Quagsire, as their immunity to Toxic and great bulk prevents it from harming them. Speaking of Toxic, the status move can render Quagsire almost useless, as it will greatly deteriorate Quagsire's walling capabilities. Magic Guard Pokemon, such as Clefable and Sigilyph, do not care about anything Quagsire can do and can either set up on it, should it lack Encore, or inflict heavy damage. A lot of physical attackers have difficulty switching in on Quagsire due to Scald; however, Hariyama isn't one of them, as it can take advantage of the Scald-inflicted burn to acquire a Guts boost and destroy Quagsire with Close Combat. Medicham and Escavalier are both powerful enough to plow right through Quagsire, though they won't enjoy a burn. Finally, Pokemon that carry Grass-type coverage moves can beat Quagsire; Galvantula, Cinccino, and Omastar are all examples of such Pokemon.</p>