[Overview]

<p>Rampardos is primarily seen as a wallbreaker in the RU tier, and accomplishes this with two main sets: one is that of a Choice Band wallbreaker and another is that of of a mixed core-breaker that can lure in its checks and counters and defeat them with the appropriate coverage move. Thus, between its colossal Attack stat and surprisingly generous special movepool, Rampardos is a truly great weapon against stall. However, it is let down by its poor Speed stat, which, along with its horrible defensive typing and quite average bulk, means that it won't be sticking around for long. It also faces competition from Aggron as a Rock-type with access to Head Smash, and unlike Rampardos, Aggron does not have to take massive amounts of recoil thanks to its Rock Head ability, meaning that Rampardos is often passed over in favor of it. Nevertheless, Rampardos separates itself from Aggron through its superior Attack and the ability to utilize its movepool well by going mixed.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed
move 1: Head Smash / Rock Slide
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Focus Blast
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Life Orb
ability: Sheer Force
nature: Rash
evs: 16 Atk / 252 SpA / 240 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Rampardos would normally be thought of as a one-dimensional wallbreaker, pummeling through the tier with its massive Attack, it also has the ability to go mixed due to access to Sheer Force and an expansive special movepool. The purpose of this set is to lure in Rampardos's checks and counters and destroy them with the appropriate coverage move. Head Smash is Rampardos's signature move for good reason; coming off base 165 Attack, it can OHKO relatively bulky threats such as Amoonguss and Slowking even with minimal investment. However, the massive recoil it takes means that Head Smash should only be used when you are not sure of a switch-in or where its coverage moves would otherwise not OHKO the target. When using Head Smash, Rampardos will usually not survive for long enough to KO more than one or two Pokemon on a given team. Rock Slide is an alternative option, and while it does not hit nearly as hard as Head Smash does, it comes with the benefit of negating Life Orb damage, does not make Rampardos take additional recoil, and hits quite hard when boosted by Sheer Force, although it misses out on the OHKOs mentioned earlier. Thunderbolt OHKOes Qwilfish, OHKOes Alomomola after Stealth Rock, and hits Poliwrath hard, letting Rampardos hit three important targets that would give it trouble; although Rampardos can 2HKO the former two with Head Smash, the recoil it would take makes this less than ideal. Focus Blast is yet another Sheer Force-boosted coverage move that lets Rampardos deal with important threats that would otherwise wall it: Steelix, Aggron, and Rhydon. Ice Beam is in the last slot as it lets Rampardos hit Druddigon and Torterra hard, as well as get an accurate hit on Rhydon. In addition, it forms a BoltBeam combo with Thunderbolt, granting near-flawless reliable coverage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread lets Rampardos outspeed Adamant Torterra (which Rampardos can then proceed to destroy with Ice Beam), while Special Attack is maximized to let Rampardos hit hard with its coverage moves and guarantee the OHKO on Rhydon, Steelix, and Alomomola after Stealth Rock. The rest of the EVs go into Attack to power up its STAB move. Rash is suggested for the nature as a Speed- or Attack-boosting nature does not let Rampardos outspeed or KO anything significant, and the extra special power is helpful to net the previously mentioned OHKOs, and while Mild seems like a viable alternative, the extra Defense gained can prove to be handy against priority attacks. Zen Headbutt is an option to hit Fighting-types, which Rampardos despises, most notably Hariyama, but the moves on the set offer more coverage against more threats to Rampardos in general. While this set is able to rip through common stall cores, offense is a playstyle Rampardos struggles with a lot because of its horrible defensive typing, average bulk, and the fact that most offensive Pokemon outspeed it and can easily OHKO. As far as partners go, Uxie, Slowking, and Qwilfish make for good partners as they can provide paralysis support; some of these Pokemon help it in more than one way (Qwilfish provides Spikes support while Uxie can bring Rampardos in with U-turn). Swellow also makes for a good partner as it can clean through weakened teams while Rampardos can break through stall cores that give it trouble. In addition, it also provides a fast hitter, which makes up for Rampardos's poor Speed. Choice Scarf Rotom-C can outspeed and KO Pokemon such as Poliwrath that give this set trouble and appreciates Rampardos's ability to destroy more defensively-oriented Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Head Smash
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Fire Punch
move 4: ThunderPunch / Rock Slide
item: Choice Band
ability: Sheer Force
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Rampardos's most effective set is that of a mixed wallbreaker, this set takes a more straightforward approach to said role, although with more prediction required. Head Smash is the main move on this set and hits most of the tier for good damage. Superpower is run in the second slot to hit Pokemon that would otherwise easily stomach a Head Smash, such as Steelix, Aggron, and Rhydon (and it OHKOes Aggron). Fire Punch gets the Sheer Force boost and OHKOes threats such as Ferroseed and Escavalier without the stat drops from Superpower in the former's case or taking the massive recoil from Head Smash in the latter's case. It also hits the previously mentioned Steelix hard, albeit a lot less hard than Superpower. In the last slot, ThunderPunch hits problematic Pokemon such as Poliwrath, Alomomola, and Qwilfish for good damage, 2HKOing all of them. Alternatively, Rock Slide is a reliable STAB move that is boosted by Sheer Force, is more accurate, and doesn't force Rampardos to take massive recoil.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Sheer Force is the preferred ability as it gives Fire Punch, ThunderPunch, and Rock Slide a much-needed boost. Alternatively, Mold Breaker can be used to allow Rampardos to screw over Custap Berry Crustle leads. Stone Edge can be used as an alternative STAB, but Head Smash is generally better and Rock Slide with a Sheer Force boost hits about as hard. Ice Punch can be used on the set to hit Ground-types such as Golurk and Torterra harder, but Rampardos generally cannot spare a moveslot for it. This set especially loves having paralysis support due to its poor Speed; Uxie, Qwilfish, and Slowking make for excellent candidates to spread paralysis. Swellow and Accelgor make for a good cleaners that can wreck the opposing team after their checks are gone and clean up after Rampardos has done its job. Mesprit can cover up Rampardos's Fighting weakness and learns Healing Wish, which can heal Rampardos up to full health and get rid of pesky status. Magneton can trap and get rid of the Steel-types that Rampardos despises. Fast, powerful Pokemon such as Sceptile and Aerodactyl can form a potent offensive core with Rampardos and appreciate its ability to break through defensive Pokemon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>While a Choice Scarf set might seem perfect due to Rampardos's Speed, it is still very slow and can be outsped by Sceptile and Cinccino even when holding said item. It is also easily revenge killed and unlike its wallbreaking counterparts, struggles against defensively oriented teams. Rampardos can fit quite well on Trick Room teams, and is a good candidate for a wallbreaker on such teams with the appropriate IV and nature adjustments. Hidden Power Grass is an option on the mixed set to hit Quagsire while retaining coverage on Rhydon, but it cannot OHKO the latter (unlike a Sheer Force-boosted Focus Blast) and the former is quite rare. Stealth Rock can be utilized in an offensive lead set, but Rampardos is quite frail and not a very reliable entry hazard setter. Substitute + Focus Punch can be used, but Rampardos has a hard time setting up Substitutes and the moveslots required cut into its coverage. Outrage and Double-Edge are two seemingly appealing moves, but provide no coverage and are both usually a waste of a moveslot.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Countering Rampardos is almost impossible due to its great coverage, high Attack, and strong STAB moves. A very effective way of stopping it is to simply prevent it from switching in on a slower Pokemon, meaning that it will have to take a hit before attacking. Fighting-types, especially bulky ones such as Hariyama and Poliwrath, can stomach any hit from Rampardos and OHKO with a STAB move of choice, though the former has to watch out for a Zen Headbutt and the latter will be hit hard by Thunderbolt or ThunderPunch from the respective sets. Ground-types such as Torterra and Golurk work as well. Golurk warrants a special mention due to its ability to hard counter the Choice Band set and take one Ice Beam (unlike Torterra). However, checking Rampardos is quite easy for most teams. Ferroseed stands out as a good check due to its overall bulk, allowing it to take at least one coverage move and proceed to OHKO Rampardos. Alomomola can take a Head Smash from Rampardos, and although it is 2HKOed, Rampardos in turn takes massive recoil due to Alomomola's high HP stat. However, Alomomola is OHKOed by a Sheer Force-boosted Thunderbolt after Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>The best way to check Rampardos is to simply revenge kill it, due to the fact that it is quite slow and not exactly sturdy. Pokemon such as Rotom-C, faster variants of Gallade, and Sceptile can easily end Rampardos with their STAB moves. Almost any Pokemon faster than it with decent attacking prowess can OHKO it. Finally, users of priority such as Spiritomb, Absol, Kabutops, Gurdurr, and Hitmonlee can ruin Rampardos's fun very quickly indeed.</p>