[Overview] 

<p>Rapidash is a mixed bag of a Pokemon; in one respect, it has rather good type coverage, good attacking stats, and a few helpful support moves, but in another, it faces stiff competition from every other Fire-type in the tier. Flash Fire is a handy ability in which Rapidash can switch into Fire-type moves with an immunity, while its other ability, Run Away, is completely useless from a competitive standpoint. Stealth Rock is a major thorn in Rapidash's side, stripping it of 25% of its health upon switching in. Unfortunately, Rapidash doesn't gain STAB on anything barring Fire-type moves, which means Pokemon such as Charizard are usually preferable. This doesn't mean you should take Rapidash lightly, however, or it'll send you packing in fear.</p>

[SET] 
name: Physical Attacker 
move 1: Flare Blitz 
move 2: Wild Charge 
move 3: Megahorn 
move 4: Low Kick / Hypnosis 
item: Life Orb / Choice Band 
ability: Flash Fire 
nature: Jolly 
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Although Rapidash seems fairly average compared to most other Fire-types in the tier, it does carry some neat tricks up its sleeve. Rapidash has a surprisingly good physical movepool, and to top that off, all of its moves provide excellent coverage and have high Base Power. Life Orb-boosted Flare Blitz is used for STAB, and it's powerful enough to 2HKO Steelix and Tangrowth, while burning everything else in the tier to a crisp. Wild Charge provides coverage against Water-types, and it has enough power to 2HKO Slowking and offensive Omastar. Megahorn is used to hit Psychic-types such as Uxie, scoring a 2HKO against it. Low Kick will seriously maim Rhydon, and it deals a lot of damage to heavy Pokemon such as Aggron as well. In the final slot, Hypnosis can be used to support its teammates, or Double-Edge can be used for added coverage against Fire-types such as Entei. This set is highly suicidal, as most of Rapidash's moves cause recoil. Don't expect it to survive long, especially with the prevalence of entry hazards and priority moves such as Sucker Punch and Mach Punch.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The EVs on this set take advantage of Rapidash's high Attack and Speed. With a Jolly nature and 252 Speed EVs, Rapidash can outspeed Pokemon such as Rotom, Lilligant, and Hitmonlee. An Adamant nature can be used with a Choice Scarf, making Rapidash faster than the whole unboosted tier. Using a Life Orb is generally the best choice; it allows Rapidash to switch between its moves, and hit Pokemon as they switch in. Hidden Power Grass can be used in the last slot to hit Kabutops, Omastar, and Quagsure, though it's recommended to use a Lonely nature so its Special Attack isn't decreased.</p>

<p>Like almost every other Fire-type, Rapidash is weak to Stealth Rock and requires support in the form of Rapid Spin. Kabutops is an excellent choice thanks to its good offensive synergy with Rapidash. As this set is offensively based, support from entry hazards are also helpful. Uxie can set up Stealth Rock, switch into Ground-type moves, and utilize dual screens and Memento to aid Rapidash's sweep. Scolipede can set up Toxic Spikes and Spikes with its decent Speed, and they are great for wearing down bulky opponents such as Spiritomb and Poliwrath.</p> 

<p>You should always consider a Grass-type when using Rapidash, because they can easily break through bulky Water- and Ground-types such as Omastar and Rhydon. Lilligant is a great choice as it can switch into Ground- and Water-type moves with little trouble, and then proceed with Sleep Powder, Quiver Dance, and Giga Drain to bring the opponent down. Sceptile is another option, but instead of setting up, Sceptile hits right off the bat with a powerful Leaf Storm. Ludicolo should also be considered as it can scare off Ground- and Water-types with its STAB moves, abuse Leech Seed, and avoid damage with Protect or Substitute. Ludicolo is also helpful at dealing with Entei, one of Rapidash's biggest nemeses. Entei can switch into any of Rapidash's attacks, survive a hit with its good defenses, and proceed with Stone Edge for a swift KO. Poliwrath and Rhydon are both good partners to break through Entei; their STAB moves are strong enough to KO it, and they have good enough defenses to take a Flare Blitz or ExtremeSpeed.</p>

<p>Support from Wish may be helpful, considering this set has so many recoil-inducing moves. Clefable is an excellent choice as she can switch into most common special-based Water-type moves, set up Stealth Rock, support Rapidash with Wish, and cripple opposing walls with Toxic. Leafeon is another excellent teammate as it can support Rapidash with Wish, use Swords Dance, and pass a +2 Attack boost with Baton Pass. Furthermore, Leafeon is weak to Fire-type moves, making Rapidash an ideal switch-in to gain a Flash Fire boost.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Rapidash's movepool isn't terrible, and there are a few more viable options to consider. Bounce can be used to hit Fighting-types super effectively, but two turn attacks aren't that great because the opponent can just switch out. Overheat is a powerful special-based move which can be used to OHKO Steelix and Tangrowth, but it comes with the nasty Special Attack drop. Flame Charge is another physical Fire-type move in its arsenal; although it's rather weak compared to Flare Blitz, it does provide Rapidash with a Speed boost. Poison Jab is also a physical attack, but it provides pitiful type coverage. A Sunny Day set can be used with SolarBeam, Morning Sun, and Flare Blitz, but something like this is best suited to Charizard, who can abuse STAB Air Slash as well. Rapidash gains Baton Pass from Pokemon XD, and it has access to Agility and Subsitute to support its teammates. Baton Pass Rapidash isn't a horrible idea because there aren't a lot of Baton Passers in the RU tier. Charm can be used to force switches and lower an opponent's Attack, though Will-O-Wisp is more effective in most cases. Finally, Rapidash gets Flame Body as its Dream World ability; it's fairly useless compared to Flash Fire, though it has a 30% chance to burn the opponent if they hit Rapidash with a physical attack. In short, don't use it unless you feel stupid, or you think you'll get lucky with burns.</p>

[Checks and Counters] 

<p>Rapidash is surprisingly difficult to counter, mainly because of its great coverage, high powered attacks, and immunity to Will-O-Wisp. Aggron, Kabutops, and Omastar can switch into Flare Blitz and threaten Rapidash with their STAB moves, though the latter two are weak to Wild Charge. Swift Swim Kabutops can take out Rapidash when it's raining, while Omastar can outspeed Rapidash after a Shell Smash boost. Sandslash and Rhydon can survive a Flare Blitz and destroy Rapidash with Earthquake, but neither of them can switch in and survive another attack, because Rapidash will move before them. Crustle is in the same boat; it can survive a single Flare Blitz and hit Rapidash with Stone Edge, but it's unable to switch in and live to tell the tale. Entei boasts a resistance to Flare Blitz, and its good defenses enable it to survive a hit, then proceed with Stone Edge for a KO. Quagsire and Omastar have good defenses and they can hit Rapidash super effectively with their STAB moves, but must be wary of Hidden Power Grass.</p>

<p>Almost anything that can outspeed Rapidash and hit it with Earthquake or Stone Edge can be called a check, making Aerodactyl an ideal choice. STAB-boosted Aqua Jet from the likes of Feraligatr will also put an end to Rapidash. Stealth Rock will wear Rapidash down over time, so force it to switch a lot and it won't take long to take down. Finally, Pokemon who can paralyze Rapidash will cripple it for the remainder of the match, so use Thunder Wave, Body Slam, and Stun Spore to your heart's content.</p>