[Overview]

<p>Regigigas is an often-overlooked Pokemon, cast away from many teams because of Slow Start, which halves its mighty Attack stat, leaving it a weakling for the first 5 turns. With an Attack of essentially nothing, it is best to turn to Regigigas's defensive stats. High defenses allow Regigigas to take hits very well, making it an effective tank with the goal of running down the timer of Slow Start. Normal is a decent defensive typing that is only weak to Fighting-type moves, which are only commonly seen on four Pokemon: Rotom, Gallade, Hitmonlee, and Hitmonchan. Thunder Wave and Confuse Ray, combined with Regigigas's great bulk, create a deadly combo not seen often in the tier. You might say that Regigigas was born to be a tank, and you could very well be right.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Return
move 2: Substitute / Earthquake / Fire Punch
move 3: Thunder Wave
move 4: Confuse Ray
item: Leftovers
ability: Slow Start
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 80 Def / 176 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With its high defensive stats, Regigigas can act as an effective wall. Because it can take multiple hits, there is a decent chance of bypassing Slow Start and becoming the monster that Regigigas's Attack stat suggests. Thunder Wave is the crux of the set, allowing Regigigas to support the rest of the team and itself all at once, remedying any Speed problems that its partners and itself may have. Confuse Ray is great with Thunder Wave, leaving a 37.5% chance for the opponent to move, thus stalling even more turns for Regigigas. Substitute is a great option to make stalling with parafusion even more effective, lessening the chance of the opponent hitting Regigigas even more. After the goal of bypassing Slow Start is achieved, Return can dish out high amounts of damage. If Regigigas requires more coverage, Earthquake or Fire Punch can be used, the latter achieving coverage on Steel-types, and more importantly, Rotom.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With this spread, Regigigas has the ability to withstand both physical and special assaults, leaving Fighting-type moves as its only weakness. For this reason, Slowking, Rotom, Spiritomb, and Uxie are great partners to take Fighting-type hits. An optional spread of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD can be used for a more offensive approach. In addition, Ice Punch is an option in the second slot for coverage. Regigigas can also run Knock Off for the second slot, allowing it to deal with Eviolite users very effectively. Regigigas lacks recovery outside of Leftovers, so Clefable is a very helpful Wish passing partner. She can also get rid of the Toxic that Regigigas hates with Heal Bell. A Pokemon to deal with Ghost-types is useful, such as Drapion and Absol. Both of them fear Will-O-Wisp, however, so the common Calm Mind Spiritomb is a great choice as well. A teammate to handle Gallade is much-needed, so Qwilfish and, once again, Spiritomb are great partners. Opposing Hitmonlee and Hitmonchan may also present a problem, so Rotom is a great partner for neutralizing these two. Regigigas also hates Steel-types, which can be dealt with by your own Magneton.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Substitute and three attacks can be used for coverage, but it is difficult to get rid of Slow Start with such a set. Choice items are terrible in conjunction with Slow Start, and should never be used. With a usable Special Attack stat, a mixed set may seem viable, but is really just completely outclassed by other sweepers. However, Thunder or Hidden Power can be usable with some Special Attack EVs if a mixed set is really desired. Rock Polish may be used to boost Regigigas's Speed. Drain Punch is an interesting option for beating Rock- and Steel-types, but should only be used if three attacks are used, as another coverage move is needed to make sure Regigigas is not walled by Ghost-types. ThunderPunch is an option to hit bulky Water-types, and Ice Punch can be used for great general coverage. Toxic may be used on stall-based teams to stall out the opponent, and is great in conjunction with Substitute. Substitute and Focus Punch is another seemingly desirable combination, but is honestly completely terrible.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The number one counter to Regigigas in the current metagame is bulky Calm Mind Spiritomb, which can leave Regigigas useless while it sets up Calm Mind, Rests to heal off damage, and Sleep Talks for more setup or attacking. Spiritomb, Dusknoir, and Rotom, the RU Ghost-types, all give Regigigas a headache, as they are immune to its Normal-type STAB and are all bulky enough to withstand Regigigas's coverage moves. While Regigigas is still in its Slow Start phase, most Fighting-types can switch in with impunity and at least scare it out with their powerful Fighting-type attacks. Steel-types in general wall Regigigas, and are pretty much in the same boat as the Ghost-types. Hazards, particularly Toxic Spikes, hinder Regigigas, so consider packing an Omastar, Scolipede, or Drapion to make sure that Regigigas cannot stay on the field for more than 5 turns. In fact, anything that can use Toxic and has a reliable STAB move can defeat Regigigas.</p>