[Overview] 
 
<p>Rhydon is a prime example of a Pokemon that is a great risk to use, but those who do will surely reap the rewards. Its physical bulk is unmatched in RU, as Eviolite boosts its stellar Defense stat to ridiculous levels in combination with Rhydon's naturally high base HP. To illustrate Rhydon's incredible defensive capabilities, with maximum investment and Eviolite, Rhydon can survive Choice Band Medicham's Hi Jump Kick! Add to this Rhydon's wonderful base 130 Attack stat, and you have a Stealth Rock-laying tank that can take powerful hits and dish out equally powerful ones back. Unfortunately, that's where the praise ends. Rhydon's downright awful Speed holds it back from sweeping without resorting to Rock Polish or paralysis support. In addition, when functioning as a tank, Rhydon is often passed over for Steelix, who has better defensive typing as well as Roar to rack up hazard damage for stall teams. However, Rhydon has a niche of countering Entei that lack Hidden Power Grass while filling a similar role to Steelix.</p>
 
<p>Another aspect of Rhydon that is quite debatable is its typing. On the offensive side, STAB EdgeQuake is nothing to laugh at, especially when Rhydon also has Megahorn to hit Grass-types and break down the popular Regenerator core of Tangrowth and Slowking. However, Rhydon's typing leaves it with many common weaknesses on the defensive side, such as Water-, Grass-, Fighting-, and Ground-type attacks. Furthermore, Rhydon is prone to being killed by most special attackers, as most carry a move that can hit Rhydon hard enough to KO it. Therefore, Rhydon often finds itself in a kill-or-be-killed situation; while few things can actually switch into every move in Rhydon's arsenal, three-fourths of the tier can outspeed and KO Rhydon before it has a chance to do anything in the first place. As mentioned before, using Rhydon is a high-risk, high-reward strategy that can ultimately pay off if used properly.</p>
 
[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock / Substitute
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Rock Blast / Stone Edge
move 4: Megahorn
item: Eviolite
nature: Adamant
evs: 88 HP / 252 Atk / 84 SpD / 84 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS] 
 
<p>Rhydon is most often seen using its combination of incredible bulk and power in a tanking role. It has a niche as being a physical tank that can set up Stealth Rock, with its ability to switch into most Entei separating it from Steelix. Stealth Rock is a must for every team in a tier filled with behemoths such as Moltres, Scyther, and Entei, and Rhydon is a fine choice to set it up if you require its talents. Rhydon appreciates the reliable STAB of Earthquake in its arsenal, and it is especially important when facing Taunt + Swords Dance Drapion because Rhydon hard counters it. When considering Rhydon's Rock-type STAB move, there are two viable choices. Rock Blast is the preferred choice to break through Focus Sash users such as Aerodactyl, Accelgor, and Scolipede, as well as Crustle. As such, Rhydon makes a fine lead when using Rock Blast as it can set up Stealth Rock on turn one while also being able to dispose of other hazard leads. However, another option that should be considered is Stone Edge. While Stone Edge is strangely more reliable, Rock Blast has a good chance to hit at least as hard as the former while also reaping the benefits of being a multi-hit move. Megahorn is a great move for Rhydon that enables it to hit bulky Grass- and Psychic-types, such as Tangrowth and Uxie, that would otherwise be able to tank its hits and retaliate. It is also essential for breaking down the Regenerator core of Slowking and Tangrowth which plagues most teams.</p>
 
<p>Another option that can go in place of Stealth Rock is Substitute. While Stealth Rock is the recommended choice in nearly all aspects, Rhydon has a free moveslot when Stealth Rock is covered by another member of your team. The only thing holding Rhydon back from destroying most teams is its abysmal Speed, which leaves it forced out by many threats, so Substitute attempts to remedy this by creating a buffer that Rhydon can safely hide behind while it it dispatches the opposing Pokemon with the appropriate move. However, when using Substitute, Eviolite becomes a liability and Rhydon will be worn down immensely due to entry hazard damage and Substitute. Leftovers is the primary item choice when using Substitute, as is an alternate EV spread of 72 HP / 252 Atk / 100 Def / 84 Spe. Not only does this mitigate the health lost from creating Substitutes, it also allows Rhydon to create five Substitutes when at full health, as well as survive uninvested Qwilfish's Waterfall after one layer of Spikes. However, Eviolite can still be used with Substitute to increase special bulk tremendously and stand a better chance of countering Drapion.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 
 
<p>When creating EV spreads for Rhydon, especially bulkier ones, they tend to be complicated due to Eviolite and the imbalance of Rhydon's stat spread. This set is no exception. Maximum investment along with an Adamant nature allows Rhydon to hit as hard as possible, maximizing its effectiveness as an offensively-oriented tank. 84 Speed EVs are required to outspeed minimum Speed Tangrowth and hit it with Megahorn, although 124 Speed EVs aren't that big of a step up and can be used to outspeed minimum Speed Omastar. The HP and Special Defense EVs are used to avoid the 2HKO from Life Orb Rotom's Shadow Ball after Stealth Rock, making Rhydon an effective counter to sets that lack Will-O-Wisp by breaking their Substitutes with Rock Blast. It is worth noting that should you choose to use enough Speed to beat minimum Speed Omastar, Rhydon will no longer be able to avoid being 2HKOed by Life Orb Rotom if Stealth Rock is in play. Eviolite is really the only item choice that you should ever consider if not using Substitute due to Rhydon's low Speed and NFE status. Keep in mind that a fully-evolved Pokemon using a similar set would only consider Leftovers, and Eviolite is much better than Leftovers for Rhydon in almost every way. The choice of ability is negligible when using this set; don't even bother changing it on the teambuilder. All three of Rhydon's abilities are completely useless and it doesn't matter which one you decide to use. That being said, don't use Reckless because its illegality with Stealth Rock isn't worth losing over Reckless's, uh, cool name I guess.</p>
 
<p>While the options listed take advantage of Rhydon's offensive potential, a more defensive set can be used effectively thanks to Rhydon's great defensive prowess. An EV spread of 252 HP / 16 Def / 240 SpD and an Impish nature should be used to take on foes such as Choice Scarf Primeape, defensive Qwilfish, and Choice Band Bouffalant. With this spread, Rhydon can avoid the 2HKO from all of these Pokemon. There are moves in Rhydon's movepool that don't find use on offensive sets but are instead useful on defensive sets, such as Toxic and Roar. These moves should replace Megahorn and Rhydon's Rock-type STAB move, as they are the less reliable, and won't do as much damage without investment, than Earthquake. Another role that Rhydon can play while filling a more defensive role is to utilize RestTalk to become a mono-attacking phazer. This has its pros and cons, as while Rhydon is so immensely bulky on the physical side that it can avoid the 2HKO from even STAB super effective attacks, it is also forced out by so many specially based Pokemon and can be quickly worn down by entry hazards in this manner. A spread with much heavier physical bias isn't recommended because Rhydon is extremely hard to kill with basically any physical attack in the first place, and extra investment would leave it even more prone to hits on its weaker Special Defense.</p>
 
<p>If Stealth Rock is already covered by another teammate and Substitute doesn't float your boat, then Swords Dance is an interesting option to boost Rhydon's Attack to extremely threatening levels and destroy stall with its awesome STABs and Megahorn. To give an example of Rhydon's power at +2, Earthquake stands a good chance of OHKOing standard 252/96+ Steelix after it has taken Stealth Rock damage! However, with the listed spread, Rhydon will be outsped and OHKOed by stall stalwarts such as Lanturn, Roselia, and Omastar. This more offensive Rhydon should use a speedier spread—namely 36 HP / 252 Atk / 220 Spe—to outspeed uninvested Lanturn and Roselia as it can OHKO the former two very hard. Another good choice over Substitute is Double-Edge, as it is very useful for finishing off weakened Pokemon that are immune to Earthquake without risking the accuracy of Stone Edge or Rock Blast. If using Double-Edge, then the ability choice becomes important, as either Rock Head or Reckless can be used to make better use of Double-Edge.</p>
 
<p>Due to its easily exploitable weaknesses, Rhydon needs a lot of team support to function to the best of its ability. Paralysis support is required when using Rhydon as it is slower than most of the metagame and needs to be able to outspeed most special attackers. Luckily for Rhydon, there are several special walls that are happy to provide paralysis support for it. Slowking is a wonderful special pivot that can take on Fighting-, Water-, and Ice-type attackers while also spreading paralysis with Thunder Wave. Rhydon appreciates Spikes to complement its own Stealth Rock, and Pokemon such as Roselia and Ferroseed can offer both Spikes and paralysis support, which makes them ideal partners. On the opposite side of the field, Toxic Spikes are the bane of Rhydon's existence and shorten its longevity greatly. Therefore, when using Rhydon, you should be sure to pack a spinner, a Toxic Spikes absorber, or both. Qwilfish is a good partner that can set up Spikes while also absorbing Toxic Spikes as it switches in, and can soften blows even further with Intimidate. When considering a spinner to aid Rhydon, look no further than Cryogonal. Cryogonal can take on many of the specially-based Water- and Grass-type foes that eat Rhydon for breakfast, and Rhydon takes on powerful physical attackers that Cryogonal easily falls to, such as Aggron and Entei. Last but not least, Clefable is probably one of the best partners for Rhydon defensively as it can not only pass Wishes to compensate for Rhydon's complete lack of healing, but it can also act as a cleric with Heal Bell and take on most special attackers.</p>
 
[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Stone Edge
move 3: Megahorn
move 4: Double-Edge / Rock Blast
item: Choice Band
ability: Rock Head / Reckless
nature: Adamant
evs: 36 HP / 252 Atk / 220 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS] 
 
<p>Although Rhydon often capitalizes on its bulk to attack, a more offensive set is also effective. When holding a Choice Band, Rhydon can pulverize anything not named Poliwrath with its incredible power. Due to the loss of bulk that comes from the loss of Eviolite and a reduced defensive investment, Rhydon must be treated as more of a wallbreaker than something that can take hits. Its resistances still allow it to take attacks such as Flare Blitz and Head Smash with ease, but the loss of bulk is noticeable when tanking the likes of Earthquake and Close Combat. In fact, Rhydon is best brought in on double switches to Pokemon who can't hurt it, such as Slowking, Lanturn, and Mandibuzz, before firing off one of its incredibly powerful moves. This set functions as an excellent Tangrowth lure, as Rhydon will always win if Tangrowth decides to switch in on it. Defensive versions of Tangrowth are outsped and always 2HKOed by Megahorn, while offensive variants are OHKOed by that same Megahorn. As such, this set finds a home on balanced and offensive teams, particularly bulky offense. Rhydon is unique in that it is a powerful Choice Band user that can switch into many of its competitors, while Entei and Aggron can't say the same.</p>
 
<p>Many users of either Choice Band or Choice Specs have their so-called "spam attack," their most powerful move that can destroy most of the metagame; your opponent will typically switch in a Pokemon that resists this move as there is a large chance that you will use it. Rhydon is no exception to this. Earthquake is powerful, reliable, and it gets the job done, so it is the move that Rhydon should be using most of the time. Stone Edge completes Rhydon's wonderful STAB combination, and is used to hit Flying- and Bug-type foes as well as Levitate users, as Moltres, Accelgor, and Rotom will all look to come in for free and they are all disposed of by Stone Edge. Complementing Rhydon's wonderful STAB coverage is Megahorn, which hits Psychic- and Grass-types, such as Uxie and Torterra, right where it hurts. Double-Edge is the primary option in the last slot as Rhydon doesn't need additional coverage, and Double-Edge is useful for hitting Pokemon that don't take much damage from Earthquake, such as Flying- and Bug-types in addition to Levitate users, without risking Stone Edge's accuracy. However, Rock Blast can go in that spot as well; although Rhydon shouldn't set up Stealth Rock with a Choice Band, it still makes a fine anti-lead that can destroy common leads such as Aerodactyl, Scolipede, Accelgor, and Crustle, while limiting them to only one layer of hazards.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 
 
<p>This EV spread is a lot less complicated than most of Rhydon's sets. As always, maximum investment in Attack in conjunction with an Adamant nature allows Rhydon to hit as hard as possible. 220 Speed EVs enable it to outrun defensive versions of Lanturn and Roselia as they usually won't run any Speed themselves. The remaining EVs are placed in HP to slightly increase bulk both physically and specially, whatever difference that may make. However, you can also use a slightly bulkier spread of 32 HP / 252 Atk / 100 Def / 124 Spe to increase Rhydon's longevity. Specifically, the Speed is dropped to outspeed uninvested Omastar, while the HP and Defense EVs allow Rhydon to survive defensive Qwilfish's Waterfall after one layer of Spikes. In this case though, you're usually better off sticking to the listed spread as Lanturn and Roselia are threats too important to pass up on. Rock Head is the preferred ability as it allows Rhydon to use Double-Edge without receiving the recoil from it. This is a great asset for Rhydon, but feel free to use Reckless as well, as there aren't any illegality issues with the slashed moves, and a Reckless-boosted Double-Edge is almost as powerful as Rhydon's STAB moves! Of course, if you're using Rock Blast or some other move, the choice of ability really doesn't matter.</p>
 
<p>If you have no use for Double-Edge or Rock Blast, Rhydon has many coverage moves at its disposal that can be used to hit specific threats harder than the listed moves. However, all of these moves are situational at best, as they usually only turn 2HKOs into OHKOs against certain Pokemon. First and foremost on the list is Aqua Tail, which is useful for doing more damage to opposing Rhydon as well as the odd Air Balloon Aggron. Fire Punch hits Ferroseed harder, but Rhydon already outspeeds and 2HKOes Ferroseed. Crunch is an option if you want Rhydon to have a more consistent option to hit Misdreavus with, but do note that a super effective Crunch is only slightly more powerful than a neutral Earthquake or Stone Edge, making it a lesser option in most cases. Lastly, Rhydon has a couple of powerful Fighting-type attacks that it can use to hit Normal-type walls such as Clefable and Miltank harder than Earthquake or Stone Edge. Superpower is the better option most of the time, but Focus Punch is a move for those feeling ballsy and who can predict well. Focus Punch's main draw is that it is as powerful as both Earthquake and Stone Edge, even factoring in STAB! All in all, as the last moveslot is truly filler, Stealth Rock can even be used to fill your team's needs. However, note that all of the moves mentioned in this paragraph bar Crunch are illegal with Reckless, although you shouldn't be considering it anyway if you're not using Double-Edge.</p>
 
<p>As with any Rhydon set, paralysis support is crucial when trying to do damage to your opponent's team. Both Ferroseed and Roselia can offer paralysis support, as well as crucial resistances to Grass- and Water-type attacks. They can also lay down Spikes to aid in Rhydon's attempt to break down your opponent's defensive core. Slowking offers resistances to Ice-, Fighting-, and Water-type attacks and also offers paralysis support. Likewise, Sigilyph can paralyze foes while being able to cover Rhydon's weaknesses to Fighting-, Grass-, and Ground-type attacks. Rhydon, just like any other offensive Pokemon, enjoys entry hazards support to break through its checks. When considering Pokemon to set up hazards, Rhydon prefers offensive partners that can aid it in its path of destruction. As such, powerful suicide hazard leads that also have an offensive presence such as Smeargle, Scolipede, and Accelgor are all great partners for Rhydon. As said before, this set is a fine Tangrowth lure, so Pokemon that can take advantage of its absence, such as the aforementioned Aerodactyl, as well as Feraligatr, Rotom-C, and Golurk, are all great partners that can benefit a lot from having Rhydon on their team.</p> 
 
[SET]
name: Rock Polish
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Megahorn
item: Life Orb
nature: Jolly
evs: 40 HP / 252 Atk / 216 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS] 
 
<p>While Rhydon's other sets focus on being bulky and powerful at the same time while sacrificing the need for Speed, this set aims to singlehandedly fix Rhydon's poor Speed with one move: Rock Polish. After only one Rock Polish, Rhydon outspeeds Sceptile as well as Choice Scarf base 70 Speed Pokemon, such as Magneton. To make sure that Rhydon can sweep, a few things must occur. Firstly, defensive walls that can counter this set such as Steelix, Poliwrath, and Tangrowth must be removed from play entirely as they will jeopardize the success of this set. Secondly, Aqua Jet users such as Feraligatr and Kabutops, as well as common Choice Scarf users over base 70 Speed, such as Rotom-C, Manectric, Primeape, and Medicham, must be nowhere to be found. The idea of this set is to wear down its counters over time with hazards and offensive pressure, then use Rock Polish for the final attempt at a sweep. As such, this set prefers to be on offensive teams that can take advantage of its powerful coverage and ability to take a hit while softening each other's checks so that one Pokemon can sweep with the help of its teammates.</p>
 
<p>The rest of the move choices are fairly obvious and take advantage of Rhydon's unique assets. Earthquake is Rhydon's most reliable STAB move, and should be used more than anything else, especially when there is no need to predict. Next, "the worst move in the game" finds major use on this set, completing Rhydon's STAB EdgeQuake combination, and hitting the Flying- and Bug-types as well as Levitate users that like to come in on a predicted Earthquake. It is less of a risk to take than other users of the move as, even if you predict incorrectly, it will still have the same Base Power as Earthquake. Rounding out the set is Megahorn, which is essential for hitting the Grass-types that resist Earthquake, as well as bulky Psychic-types such as Slowking. It is worth noting that a Life Orb-boosted Megahorn will always OHKO Slowking after Stealth Rock, and it is a 2HKO on Tangrowth after Stealth Rock as well.</p> 
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 
 
<p>The recommended EV spread places maximum emphasis on Attack, and uses enough Speed to outrun Sceptile as well as Choice Scarf Magneton after a Rock Polish. The leftover EVs are placed in HP to slightly increase bulk. A Jolly nature is mainly used to outspeed Sceptile, but if you aren't too worried about that, then an Adamant nature can be used instead for more power. If using Adamant, an EV spread of 8 HP / 252 Atk / 248 Spe should be used to outspeed Scolipede. The main benefit of using Adamant is the ability to 2HKO all variants of Tangrowth without Stealth Rock, in addition to added power against every other foe that Rhydon faces. Life Orb is the item of choice for this set as it provides a sizable boost to all of Rhydon's moves while allowing it to switch between them. Eviolite can be used, but the drop in power is too great to make up for added bulk while setting up. Swords Dance is an interesting option over Megahorn to form a double dance set, and is usable thanks to to Rhydon's amazing STAB combination and incredible power. However, it's generally not advised because of Rhydon's frequent lack of opportunities to set up, due to its multitude of common weaknesses as well as its pathetic Speed. In addition, the coverage provided by Megahorn is too good to pass up most of the time in a tier where Psychic and Grass are two prominent defensive types.</p>
 
<p>As with any offensive Pokemon, Rhydon appreciates entry hazards to do its job better. Specifically, Stealth Rock alone enables Jolly Rhydon to 2HKO Tangrowth with Megahorn all of the time. Good partners that can set up hazards include Scolipede, Roselia, and Ferroseed, as they all either provide crucial resistances or added offensive pressure. Also, this set appreciates a cleric as it tends to get hit with status. Both Clefable and Lanturn are excellent choices, with the former taking a slight edge thanks to its access to Wish. Although Megahorn has a good chance to 2HKO Tangrowth, it can simply switch out again and take Rhydon on again due to Regenerator. As such, Magmortar is a fantastic partner that can switch into Tangrowth with impunity and OHKO with Fire Blast. Rhydon fulfills its side of the bargain by taking out Slowking with Megahorn. Bulky Ghost-types, such as Misdreavus, Dusknoir, and Spiritomb, can take Rhydon's attacks and burn it with Will-O-Wisp. As such, a Pursuit user is helpful to tame these beasts, and Spiritomb is the superior choice thanks to its immunity to Fighting-type attacks. Another thing that Rhydon asks of its teammates is the ability to remove Toxic Spikes from the field of play. Qwilfish and Drapion are both excellent choices as the former can set up Spikes for Rhydon to take advantage of, and the latter can provide the aforementioned Pursuit support.</p> 
 
[Other Options] 
 
<p>Rhydon has a wide movepool, although most of these options are inferior to other Pokemon or just aren't good enough to warrant their own set. First on the list is a SubPunch set, which can utilize Stone Edge and Megahorn for coverage. Earthquake isn't used because Stone Edge and Focus Punch are both as powerful as it, and in general it offers redundant coverage. An Adamant nature along with an EV spread of 72 HP / 252 Atk / 100 Def / 84 Spe should be used to not only maximize power, but also to outrun Tangrowth, hit a Leftovers number, and avoid the OHKO from defensive Qwilfish after one layer of Spikes. This set isn't very good because it doesn't beat any threats that one of Rhydon's other sets doesn't, and Earthquake is a much better attacking option than Focus Punch. As such, you're better off not using this set. However, it can set up on Pokemon that can't do anything to Rhydon, such as Mandibuzz, and possibly take out other members of your opponent's team after that as well.</p>
 
<p>Here we draw the line from "decent if used well" to "there is absolutely no reason to use this." Counter is one of the most prediction reliant moves in the game, and only has value on Rhydon for its ability to take almost every physical attack in the tier. However, most players will attempt to bring Rhydon down with special attacks, so the uses of Counter are few. Rhydon can also set up Sunny Day and Rain Dance with Stealth Rock to compliment its weather, but Rhydon doesn't offer any key resistances and Uxie does this much better. Rhydon has a very large special movepool to possibly take advantage of as well, but nothing hurts coming off of Rhydon's base 40 Special Attack. Its Nidoking-like coverage gives it a would-be powerful STAB in Earth Power, while getting another pair of moves other than its STAB combination that provide some of the best two-move coverage in the game in Thunderbolt and Ice Beam. Rhydon also has Fire Blast to hit Steel-types, especially those such as Ferroseed and Steelix. If Rhydon had more Special Attack, not even Normal-type special walls such as Clefable would be able to stop it with its access to Focus Blast.</p>
 
[Checks and Counters]
 
<p>While Rhydon's incredible power and coverage leave most defensive Pokemon unable to touch it, there are a few exceptions to this. Ridiculously bulky Pokemon, such as Poliwrath, Tangrowth, and Alomomola can take even Rhydon's most powerful hits in some cases and deal damage back. Poliwrath is the best Rhydon counter in existence, as it only fears the 2HKO from a Choice Band Earthquake, and can outspeed and OHKO with Scald. Eviolite Rhydon isn't OHKOed by Scald, but can't 2HKO Poliwrath in return. Tangrowth is a close second, as only the Choice Band set is guaranteed to beat it. Without an item boosting its power, Rhydon can't get a guarenteed 2HKO Tangrowth with Megahorn, and although offensive variants are 2HKOed, they outspeed and OHKO Rhydon with Leaf Storm. Alomomola can take any hit from Rhydon with ease thanks to her incredible physical bulk and either prey on Rhydon's 4x weakness to Water with Scald or Waterfall or whittle Rhydon down over time with Toxic, which is especially effective as Rhydon lacks any form of reliable recovery. Ironically, Rhydon is also checked by itself, and only a very rare Aqua Tail can catch it off-guard. Usually, whichever Rhydon with more Speed wins.</p>
 
<p>As not much else can take Rhydon's attacks, you'll usually have to resort to revenge killing it. Obviously the most difficult set to revenge kill is the Rock Polish set, but there are a few Pokemon capable of it. Aqua Jet users such as Kabutops and Feraligatr can each deal approximately 80% to Rhydon if it lacks an Eviolite, which makes Rhydon very prone to entry hazards or Life Orb damage after that. Various Choice Scarf users with over base 70 Speed have no trouble with revenge killing Rhydon, and most are fairly common as well. Your best bet is to hit Rhydon on the special side, and Pokemon such as Rotom-C, Manectric, Typhlosion, and Galvantula can all outspeed +2 Rhydon with a Choice Scarf and OHKO with either Leaf Storm, Hidden Power Grass, or Giga Drain. Physical Choice Scarf users give Rhydon trouble as well, mainly Primeape and Medicham. Both Close Combat and Hi Jump Kick are typically too much for Rhydon to handle. Accelgor doesn't even need a Choice Scarf to outspeed Rhydon at +2, and can OHKO with Giga Drain or Focus Blast. Although they are faster than +2 Rhydon and carry super effective moves, both Choice Scarf Rotom and Choice Scarf Drapion can't OHKO Rhydon and will promptly be destroyed by Stone Edge or Earthquake, respectively.</p>
 
<p>Non-Rock Polish variants of Rhydon are a lot easier to kill. Rhydon is hilariously slow, and most Grass- or Water-type special attacks will put an end to the beast. While the Choice Band set uses enough Speed to outrun Roselia and Lanturn, tank sets are prone to being killed by Giga Drain and Scald, respectively. Lilligant and Sceptile can switch in on Earthquake, and both OHKO with Giga Drain. However, they must watch out for either Megahorn or Stone Edge, as both do enough damage to make switching in difficult, or even to outright OHKO them. Moltres comes in for free on Earthquake, and can end Rhydon with a simple Hidden Power Grass. However, it is crippled tremendously by the Stealth Rock that Rhydon sets up, and fears Stone Edge or Rock Blast greatly. Omastar is a good check to Rhydon as defensive variants aren't OHKOed by any of Rhydon's moves, and can outspeed tank Rhydon and OHKO it with Scald. Choice Band and Rock Polish sets outspeed and 2HKO, however. Offensive Omastar can't switch in, but it outspeeds all variants of Rhydon and can Hydro Pump for the kill. Similar to offensive Omastar, Crawdaunt outspeeds all Rhydon sets and OHKOes with Adaptability Waterfall. Other Waterfall users, such as Feraligatr and Kabutops, outspeed and are guaranteed to OHKO most Rhydon variants as long as they use a Life Orb.</p>