[Overview]

<p>Of the three monkeys in the newly introduced monkey trio, Simisear definitely has the best offensive prowess, as it has a great offensive typing that leaves it with few weaknesses. However, one might think Simisear is outclassed by the other common Fire-types in the tier, such as Entei, Moltres, Charizard, and Typhlosion. This is not the case, as Simisear has access to a move that sets it apart from the aforementioned Pokémon: Nasty Plot. With Nasty Plot, Simisear is able to boost its Special Attack to levels many Fire-types could only dream of. Simisear also has a greater Speed stat, making it the second fastest Fire-type available in the tier. However, even though its offense is great, Simisear's defense is somewhat lacking. Its defensive stats are below average, and it has a weakness to the common Ground-, Rock-, and Water-type moves in the tier, which includes Stealth Rock. However, none of this stops Simisear from wreaking havoc if it's played right. With Nasty Plot, a wide movepool, and great offensive stats, Simisear can be a force to be reckoned with.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Fire Blast / Flamethrower
move 3: Grass Knot / Focus Blast
move 4: Hidden Power Rock
item: Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Fire Blast, boosted with a Nasty Plot or two, will destroy a huge portion of the RU tier, even doing respectable damage to Pokemon that resist it. Grass Knot is Simisear's best weapon against Water-type Pokemon such as Slowking. Hidden Power Rock allows Simisear to hit opposing Fire-types, such as Moltres, Charizard, and Entei. Having such an odd Speed stat means that the lowering of its Speed IVs doesn't hurt Simisear, as it still outspeeds base 100 Speed Pokemon. Focus Blast is Simisear's best bet against Munchlax, who resists Fire Blast thanks to Thick Fat. Focus Blast also hits Aggron much harder than Fire Blast. Flamethrower can also be used as a safer STAB move than Fire Blast, but the difference in power will be noticeable.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Substitute can be used to make setting up easier by blocking status and attacks, but it can be hard to find a slot for it. If you opt to use Substitute, Leftovers is a viable option, as it can help restore the lost health suffered from using Substitute. Rapid Spin support is basically essential, as Simisear is weak to Stealth Rock. Kabutops is the best choice for this role, as it has good synergy with Simisear. Entry hazards can also help Simisear score some KOs. Roselia and Qwilfish are both great choices for setting up Spikes and Toxic Spikes, while Uxie can set up Stealth Rock. Baton Pass support can also aid Simisear, and Scyther can pass a welcomed Speed boost. There are several Pokemon that will easily stop Simisear in its tracks. Lanturn will shrug off any move that Simisear throws at it, while hitting back with its super effective STAB moves. The best way to deal with Lanturn is to use hard-hitting Grass-types such as Lilligant, Sceptile, and Leafeon. Defensive versions of Moltres will stop Simisear cold if it is not carrying Hidden Power Rock, so Pokemon such as Slowking are good choices to take Moltres down. Powerful Pokemon that can outspeed Simisear such as Swellow, Archeops, and Galvantula are a huge pain. Swellow can be taken down by Aggron, while Lanturn and Steelix can take care of Galvantula and Archeops, respectively.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Fire Blast
move 2: Grass Knot
move 3: Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Focus Blast
item: Choice Specs
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>When utilizing Choice Specs, Simisear can hit fast and hard right from the word go, making it a surprising threat. What differentiates Simisear from other Fire-types that use Choice Specs, such as Moltres and Typhlosion, is its greater Speed. With its powerful Fire Blast, Simisear is able to deal massive damage to anything that doesn't resist the move, bar those with high Special Defense. Grass Knot is used to hit Slowking as well as other Water-types, and is basically essential. Hidden Power Rock lets Simisear hit opposing Fire-types for super effective damage. Best of all, Simisear doesn't mind the lowering of its Speed IVs, as it still outspeeds everything up to base 100 Speed Pokemon. Focus Blast hits Munchlax, as well as Aggron, harder than any of Simisear's other moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Rapid Spin support is essential, as Simisear will be switching around a lot. Kabutops has good offensive synergy with Simisear, making it the best choice. Entry hazards can also help scoring some needed KOs. Qwilfish and Roselia can both set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes, while Uxie can set up Stealth Rock. Slowking is a pain, and Simisear will always have trouble getting past it. Hard-hitting Dark- and Bug-types, such as Crawdaunt, Absol, and Scolipede, can easily defeat Slowking. Toxic support can also help in taking Slowking down.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Overheat is Simisear's most powerful move, but its effect of lowering the user's Special Attack by two stages makes Fire Blast the better option. However, Overheat can be used as a last resort. Flame Charge is a gimmicky move on Simisear, but a Speed boost can really pay off. Simisear can make use of a Choice Band set to some success, but its limited and rather weak physical movepool hinders it. If you do opt to use Choice Band, Simisear has access to moves such as Fire Punch, Rock Slide, Brick Break, and Crunch. Low Kick is also an option over Brick Break. In the same vein, Simisear also has access to Hone Claws, but a mere +1 boost simply isn't enough, and as mentioned before, Simisear's movepool is rather limited. As a final note, Simisear can also make use of Taunt thanks to its great Speed.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Slowking can take most hits from Simisear thanks to its great Special Defense, but needs to be careful of Grass Knot, which can swiftly 2HKO Slowking. After it has taken a hit, Slowking can either recover the damage or hit back with Scald. Munchlax is another Pokemon with a huge Special Defense stat, plus the Thick Fat ability, which means it resists Simisear's STAB moves. Simisear must rely on Focus Blast and its shaky accuracy to have a chance against Munchlax. Lanturn is also a great counter, as it takes little damage from Grass Knot and can proceed to KO Simisear with either Scald or Surf. Defensive versions of Moltres will also wall Simisear all day long if it is not carrying Hidden Power Rock. Qwilfish can check Simisear quite well, as it takes neutral damage at worst from Simisear's attacks. Mantine is another Water-type Pokemon with a huge Special Defense stat, and will take almost nothing from Simisear's moves. However, it needs to be wary of Hidden Power Rock, as Mantine has no reliable recovery.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Simisear receives Blaze as its Dream World ability. Blaze will come in handy, as Simisear will often find itself at low HP, and a Blaze-boosted Fire Blast will really hurt. However, it should be noted that Gluttony still has its merits when the pinch Berries are released.</p>