[Overview]

<p>As a member of the new monkey trio, Simisage isn't exactly the best of the three. Being a Grass-type Pokemon, Simisage has an awful defensive typing, giving it weaknesses to the common attacking moves in the tier. Simisage wasn't blessed with a good movepool either, with its best STAB move being Energy Ball. However, one should not compare Simisage to the other two monkeys, but should instead look at what it has over other Grass-types. It has an exceptional Speed stat, which makes it one of the fastest Grass-types in the tier, outspeeding many common threats such as Moltres and Entei. It gets even better: Simisage also receives Nasty Plot, a move Victreebel and Sceptile wish they had, allowing Simisage to boost its decent Special Attack to incredible levels. Combine Simisage's good offensive typing, great Speed stat, and access to Nasty Plot with the proper team support, and this monkey will rock your opponent's world.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Energy Ball
move 3: Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Focus Blast
item: Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Simisage's best set and the only thing it should really do. With its great Speed stat, Simisage is a excellent user of Nasty Plot. Energy Ball is Simisage's best STAB option, and will do quite a bit of damage after a boost or two, while Hidden Power Rock lets Simisage hit the common Fire-, Bug-, and Flying-types in the tier, such as Moltres, Entei, Scyther, and Mandibuzz, for super effective damage. Due to its odd base 101 Speed, lowering Simisage's Speed IVs doesn't matter, as it maintains the ability to outpace all base 100 and slower Pokemon. Focus Blast is used mainly to hit Ferroseed, but it is also the easiest way to get rid of Pokemon such as Clefable, Aggron, and Steelix, as well as other Grass-types that don't resist the move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Substitute makes setting up easier for Simisage by protecting it from damage and status. If you opt to use Substitute over Focus Blast, Hidden Power Fire is an option to hit Ferroseed, and other Grass-types, especially Roselia and Amoonguss. However, packing a super effective coverage option against Fire-types is more important, as they are pretty common. You can instead choose to use Substitute over Hidden Power Rock, keeping Focus Blast to hit Fire-types neutrally, but this will let Moltres, Charizard, and Roselia stop Simisage cold. Leaf Storm is Simisage's most powerful move, and can put a huge dent into anything that doesn't resist it, but Simisage can find it hard to set up Nasty Plot twice, as Leaf Storm lowers its Special Attack by two stages. However, it does provide Simisage with enough pure power to ensure a KO before it goes down. Leftovers works great in combination with Substitute to restore lost health.</p>

<p>Simisage needs good support to function well. Uxie can help Simisage by setting up dual screens and Stealth Rock, which can ease both Simisage's setup and its sweep. Qwilfish is another Pokemon that can set up entry hazards, specifically Spikes and Toxic Spikes. It is also wise to remove faster opposing Pokemon, as they can swiftly pick off Simisage before it accomplishes anything. Faster Bug-types such as Scyther, Accelgor, and Galvantula can easily KO Simisage with their super effective STAB moves. Aggron is a good choice to stop both Scyther and Accelgor, while Lanturn or Steelix can take care of Galvantula. Moltres is also an option, but it needs to watch out for Galvantula's Thunder. Certain Flying-types can also be a problem for Simisage; Swellow, for instance, is faster and hits hard with Brave Bird. Aggron is the best counter to Swellow in the tier, and can easily take hits from it. Specially defensive Mandibuzz easily sponges all of Simisage's moves and can KO back with Brave Bird; Rotom-A, Galvantula, and Aggron can all take Mandibuzz down with their powerful STAB moves. Lastly, as Simisage has no way to increase its own Speed, Baton Passing it Speed boosts can really help. Scyther is an excellent choice, as it combines good physical bulk with the ability to pass Agility boosts.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Grass Knot is another STAB option, as it deals more damage to Pokemon such as Dusknoir than Energy Ball. However, it is unreliable, and weaker against Pokemon such as Lanturn and Rotom. Choice Specs is a way to bypass set-up, but the power difference is too noticeable, and is better left to Pokemon such as Sceptile. Simisage can utilize a Choice Band set to some success, but its limited movepool and only decent Attack holds it back, therefore it's not recommended. If you opt to use it, Simisage has access to decent physical moves such as Seed Bomb, Rock Slide, and Brick Break. It also has Crunch and Acrobatics for coverage, as well as Low Kick as an option over Brick Break. In the same vein, Simisage also has access to Hone Claws, but a mere +1 Attack boost isn't enough; Nasty Plot is far superior. Simisage also has access to Taunt and has the Speed to use it, but Substitute is generally the better move.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mandibuzz resists Simisage's STAB moves, has high enough Special Defense to withstand Hidden Power Rock, and can KO Simisage with Brave Bird. The same goes for Golbat, Roselia, and Amoonguss, as they can survive Hidden Power Rock and KO Simisage with Brave Bird, Sludge Bomb, and Clear Smog respectively. Specially defensive Weezing can comfortably check Simisage and threaten it with Fire Blast or Sludge Bomb. Faster threats such as Galvantula, Accelgor, Scyther, Swellow, and Archeops can outspeed and easily KO Simisage with their super effective STAB moves. However, they need to be careful when switching in, as Simisage almost always carries a move that can KO them instead.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Simisage receives Overgrow as its Dream World ability. Overgrow can be put to good use on Simisage, who will often find itself at low HP, and the extra power boost will come in handy. However, Gluttony does have its merits when pinch Berries such as Liechi, Petaya, and Salac are released.</p>