[Overview] 

<p>Despite all the changes that have occurred in RU over time, Slowking still remains one of the best mixed walls within the tier. This is largely thanks to its useful Water typing, access to an instant recovery move, good bulk on both defensive sides, and the incredible Regenerator, which makes it harder to wear down than most other Pokemon. Slowking also has a very wide movepool that consists of good support moves like Trick Room and Thunder Wave, and a wide offensive movepool going from its STABs all the way to Fire Blast, backed up by a decent Special Attack. However, powerful Pokemon such as Durant and Escavalier, as well as Moltres's newfound Hurricane usually being able to 2HKO it, is somewhat troubling, and Slowking's weakness to Pursuit can make its habit of switching out a liability. Overall, though, Slowking is still one of the best Pokemon within the tier, and it is easy to fit onto a team.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Scald
move 2: Slack Off
move 3: Psyshock / Fire Blast
move 4: Thunder Wave / Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Regenerator
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 144 Def / 116 SpD

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Slowking is best utilized by running a defensive set and it works great as a defensive pivot. Bulky Water-types are generally considered to be an important component to any team, and while Slowking doesn't have as many resistances as other bulky Water-types such as Lanturn or Qwilfish, it makes up for it with its incredible staying power. Unlike other bulky Water-types, it has access to instant recovery, and, thanks to Regenerator, Slowking isn't deterred very much by entry hazards compared to other Pokemon. Regenerator also means that it can switch into a resisted hit, land a hit on the foe and then switch out with very little health loss. With key resistances to attacking types such as Fighting-, Fire-, and Ice-moves, Slowking has many opportunities to switch in.</p>

<p>The always-infuriating Scald is the main STAB move, and its chance to burn the opponent can help soften blows. Along with this side effect, the ability to hit dangerous threats such as Moltres, Magmortar, and Entei for super effective damage helps it retaliate. As mentioned before, Slack Off allows Slowking to heal even further, meaning it has even more recovery and can heal itself without having to switch out. Slowking also has room for another offensive move. Psyshock gets a STAB boost, and hits Fighting-types and special walls like Cryogonal hard. However, Fire Blast gets the advantage of being able to hit Escavalier and Grass-type Pokemon on the switch. Be warned though that while Escavalier is slower than Slowking, many Escavalier might try to invest in their Speed in order to outspeed Slowking. The last slot comes into play for a status move, and is ultimately dependent on how it's used. In the case that Slowking is switching out often, Thunder Wave is the more preferable option, as it cripples offensive Pokemon that rely on their Speed, even if Slowking cannot hit them hard. However, Toxic is usable<comma> as it cripples defensive Pokemon such as opposing Slowking to prevent the annoying Slowking vs Slowking stalemate, or it can wear down an opponent if Slowking isn't repeatedly switching out. However, in the long run, most Pokemon are crippled more by Thunder Wave or a burn caused by Scald.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The EV spread allows Slowking to avoid getting OHKOed by Choice Band Drapion's and Choice Band Escavalier's Pursuit when switching out. However, a more specially defensive spread of 248 HP / 76 Def / 184 SpD is able to avoid a 2HKO from Life Orb Timid Moltres's Hurricane assuming there are no hazards up, which also makes it one of the few Pokemon able to avoid that as well. Slowking can be used as a dedicated special or physical wall with the straightforward EVs, but with these spreads Slowking becomes less of a pivot and less of a solution to hard-hitting foes on the uninvested side. Leftovers should be used here as the item choice, as its extra healing effects work well with all the other HP recovery Slowking can get.</p>

<p>One of the main advantages of Slowking is how easy it is to fit onto a team, but one suggestion is that Electric-type Pokemon, especially those that are immune to Thunder Wave, such as Manectric and Electivire, should be dealt with by teammates. Slowking's weakness to Grass-type moves is also troublesome due to how common they are in the tier. Druddigon makes a great partner due to this&mdash;its relatively good bulk, resistance to Electric-, Grass-, and Fire-type coverage moves, as well as its high Attack lets it prey on these Pokemon with its Dragon STAB alone. Pursuit users such as Drapion and Spiritomb are also dangerous, as they can make Slowking's tendency to switch in and out more difficult, making Steelix a good partner because it can take hits from common Pursuit users with ease. Slowking aids a lot of Pokemon with its utility, and one common strategy is to pair it up with other Pokemon with Regenerator such as Tangrowth and Amoonguss. In particular, these Grass-types are aided by Slowking, as it can easily take Fire-type moves for both of them. Amoonguss can also help out Slowking by taking on Grass-types fairly easily with its Poison STAB. Steel-types like Steelix and Escavalier cannot deal with Fire-type Pokemon very well, and because of this, Slowking pairs up well with them.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Surf
move 2: Psyshock / Psychic
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Trick / Grass Knot
item: Choice Specs
ability: Regenerator
nature: Modest
evs: 212 HP / 252 SpA / 44 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Although Slowking is usually seen being played defensively, Slowking still has a fairly good Special Attack stat, as well as a very wide offensive movepool to utilize, making Choice Specs a good item for Slowking. Along with having the advantage of catching foes off guard when they expect a defensive set, Slowking also has a large advantage over other Choice Pokemon. Normally, Choice users have to switch in and out in order to switch their moves again, and because of this many Choice users get worn down very quickly. However, Slowking's access to Regenerator means that this damage can be healed off simply by switching out, allowing it to battle more than other users. Slowking is also still particularly bulky, making it function as an effective tank. Unfortunately, Slowking's vast movepool doesn't contain Hydro Pump, but Surf still does plenty of damage to anything that doesn't resist it. Psyshock is preferred as the Psychic STAB because it lets Slowking deal with special walls such as Cryogonal, as well as Pokemon that naturally have a higher Special Defense such as Gallade. However, Psychic's higher Base Power might come in handy. Fire Blast roasts Grass-types such as Sceptile and Lilligant, and hits Ferroseed especially hard. The final slot is up to personal preference; the ever-useful Trick can cripple walls that try to switch into Slowking, making them much easier to deal with in general, but Grass Knot hits Water-types such as opposing Slowking, Quagsire, and Feraligatr hard, all of whom can give Slowking problems.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The EVs maximize its Special Attack, and it has enough Speed to outspeed 0 Spe Spiritomb and Quagsire, but there are other foes that Slowking can try to outspeed. For example, with 164 Speed EVs Slowking can get the jump on uninvested Tangrowth, but this Slowking can lose out on quite a lot of bulk, and it is still relatively slow. Of course, doing the opposite is also dangerous, as being unable to outspeed Spiritomb can be a problem because of its STABs hitting hard. Some foes might try to take advantage of Slowking switching out often by trying to use Pursuit on it. Drapion and Spiritomb, the most common STAB Pursuit users, can be taken care of by using physically bulky Pokemon such Steelix, which can take hits from both all day; note that you must scout for them in Team Preview, as escaping will not work.</p>

<p>Other Regenerating Pokemon also work well as partners, especially Grass-types such as Tangrowth and Amoonguss. These two Pokemon can take on the bulky Water-types that Slowking struggles to hit hard, and Slowking can also defeat Fire-types rather easily, albeit not as easily as the defensive set. Slowking struggles a bit against Electric-type Pokemon such as Manectric and Rotom, which can hit it for massive damage with their STAB. Specially defensive Pokemon such Clefable can take hits from them fairly easily, and Ground-types such as Golurk can stop any momentum they might try to gain with Volt Switch.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Surf
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Nasty Plot / Psyshock
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
ability: Regenerator
nature: Quiet
ivs: 0 Spe
evs: 248 HP / 252 SpA / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Slowking is normally extremely slow, but even then, it can easily turn this otherwise crippling flaw into its advantage after it uses Trick Room. With absolute minimum Speed, it gets down to 58 Speed, enough to "outspeed" everything in the tier except for Ferroseed and Munchlax, both of which pose no threat offensively toward Slowking. Trick Room also has the advantage of messing with the Speed stats of common Pokemon that hit Slowking hard, such as Manectric or Sceptile, as under these conditions they have a much harder time dealing with Slowking since they must take a hit. Surf is used as the main STAB, and it does quite a bit of damage to the foe if they don't resist it. Fire Blast has decent coverage with Surf, as it destroys Grass-types that resist Surf. The combination of these two moves are only resisted by Water- and Dragon-types. The options for the final slot are both useful, but sadly Slowking only has room for one of them. Nasty Plot allows Slowking to sweep, as at +2 it is difficult to wall without the two aforementioned types. However, Psyshock gets STAB and hits Fighting-types very hard, as well as special walls such as Clefable and Cryogonal.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>Despite having maximum Special Attack on this set, Leftovers is preferred here, as Slowking is one of the few offensive Pokemon within the tier with access to Trick Room, so keeping it alive is important to set it up more than once. However, a Life Orb lets it hit quite a bit harder, and thanks to Regenerator, it can recover lost HP when it switches out. Slowking could potentially run a bulkier EV spread, possibly with Slack Off for instant recovery over Psyshock or Nasty Plot, if Slowking is used defensively rather than offensively. However, from there it gets quite a bit of competition from Uxie. In addition, instant recovery is risky, as it makes Slowking lose a valuable turn on the already-limited Trick Room.</p>

<p>Like any other Trick Room user, pairing Slowking up with other slow offensive Pokemon is very helpful, as under these conditions they can be similar to Slowking&mdash;powerful, relatively bulky, and hard to outspeed. Examples of such Pokemon are offensive Tangrowth, Bouffalant, and Escavalier, since they are all normally slow. Since all of them don't need to use Trick Room, they can provide even more offensive coverage and hit more relevant targets. If Nasty Plot is used over Psyshock, this set is walled by Water-types such as opposing Slowking and Lanturn. For these foes, Tangrowth is still a good choice, but other slow Grass-types like Amoonguss can work against these Pokemon. Druddigon is a dangerous opponent for this set, as it resists Fire Blast and Surf, can use Outrage to destroy Slowking, or utilize Sucker Punch to ignore the problem of getting outsped. Since most Druddigon are holding a Choice item, Steel-types such as Steelix can take hits from Druddigon, and they can also usually take a Superpower due to their high physical defense.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Slowking has a surprisingly large movepool and has many other options. A Nasty Plot set can be used without Trick Room because Slowking has many coverage moves, but Slowking is very slow and therefore gets revenge killed fairly easily. In addition, its main advantage of having Regenerator is fairly worthless in this scenario, since it needs to stay in and keep its boosts. Ice Beam hits Dragon-type Pokemon such as Druddigon and Altaria for a lot of damage, but Druddigon is the only common Dragon-type in RU, making this move usually not worth it. Flamethrower can be used over Fire Blast on any set, but the extra power is preferred even on the defensive set since its main purpose is to deter Grass-types and simply remove them as a threat. Calm Mind can be used in a similar fashion to Slowbro in UU, but Slowking has a much lower physical bulk than Slowbro, meaning it cannot take hits as well.</p>

<p>Hidden Power Grass can be used to hit lighter Water-type Pokemon hard, but the most common light Water-types, Lanturn and Qwilfish, are already hit rather hard by Psyshock due to either having a somewhat low physical defense or being weak to the move, respectively. Dragon Tail is useful for phazing the foe, but Slowking generally doesn't have room to put this in its moveset, and against foes with Substitute it can become set-up fodder, since Slowking's Attack is subpar. Finally, Slowking has access to Shadow Ball to deal with Ghost-types, notably Rotom, which can usually cause problems for Slowking, but many Ghost-types, namely Spiritomb, can either take Shadow Balls due to a secondary typing or are weak to another move Slowking has.</p>

[Checks and Counters] 

<p>Due to Slowking's versatility, as well as its tendency to switch out often to regain health, it can be difficult to eliminate from the match. Of course, due to Slowking's weakness to Pursuit, STAB users of the move like Drapion and Spiritomb can turn this advantage against Slowking and wear it down much easier. Dark-types can also switch into Slowking's Psychic STABs with impunity. Otherwise, there exist Pokemon that can take repeated hits from Slowking. Lanturn has good bulk and resists its Water and Fire moves, and can use its Electric-type moves and Toxic to wear it down. Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Rotom can cause problems for Slowking; the former has Taunt to make Slowking unable to heal itself or status Misdreavus, and the other can use Trick to cripple Slowking or hit it hard with its Electric or Ghost STAB. Thanks to Dry Skin, Jynx is immune to or resists Slowking's STABs and can set up on it, but Fire Blast will hurt quite a bit. Escavalier is even weaker to Fire Blast and is somehow slower than Slowking, but with some EV investment in Speed it can outspeed and OHKO with Megahorn.</p>

<p>Ironically, Slowking walls itself with its high special defense, but if your Slowking has Toxic it'll win in due time. Despite being rare in RU, Altaria's excellent Special Defense and typing makes it able to take all kinds of hits from Slowking, and thanks to Natural Cure, not even status deters it that much. Druddigon is slow enough to not be deterred by Thunder Wave and it also resists Fire- and Water-type moves, retaliating for a lot of damage with Choice Band-boosted Outrages, but be warned that a burned Druddigon tends to struggle greatly. Despite carrying Fire Blast somewhat often and Psyshock doing quite a bit of damage, Grass-types such as Sceptile and Lilligant can do massive damage to Slowking, and many have access to Sleep Powder to cripple Slowking or a teammate. Finally, using Trick to give Slowking a Choice Scarf or Choice Band severely cripples its walling capabilities, as it will be unable to heal itself without needing to switch out, making it much easier to take down. Users of this strategy include Rotom, Rotom-C, and Manectric, all of whom can also hit Slowking hard with their STAB moves.</p>