[Overview]

<p>While its stats aren't quite up to par with the other RU Pokemon, Snover is incredibly useful due to being the only automatic weather setter in RU, giving hail teams the capability to flourish. By being used as a lead, Snover can dent the opposing team early-game by firing off powerful, perfectly accurate Blizzards and can rack up residual damage through using Protect and Ice Shard. Snover's further abilities are limited to being death fodder, as it is so frail that it won't be able to last for more than a few turns.</p>

[SET]
name: Focus Sash
move 1: Blizzard
move 2: Giga Drain / Wood Hammer
move 3: Protect / Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Ice Shard
item: Focus Sash
ability: Snow Warning
nature: Mild
evs: 252 HP / 252 SpA / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash Snover is very effective early-game, as it is able to set up hail and get at least one Blizzard off. The point of this set, besides setting up hail, is to get as much damage on the opponent as possible. Blizzard hits decently hard due to being a 120 Base Power STAB move. It can wear down threats to hail such as Escavalier and Entei, making them more vulnerable to being KOed later in the game. Giga Drain is an additional coverage move that hits Pokemon that resist Blizzard, such as Poliwrath, Slowking, and Lanturn. However Wood Hammer is also an good option if you really need the more powerful hit on Cryogonal and Slowking. Protect can both rack up hail damage on the opposing Pokemon or scout a move, which is very helpful for wearing down the opponent and obtaining an advantage. However, if Escavalier is a threat to your hail team, Snover can use Hidden Power Fire to lure in and KO Escavalier, while also hitting other Steel-types such as Klinklang. Ice Shard also enables Snover to get some extra damage on an opposing Pokemon, and can even pick off a weakened foe.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Mild nature is the most effective, as it maximizes the power of Blizzard and does not detract from Ice Shard. Snover doesn't need any Defense EVs since it's so frail anyways, and the only special attacks it can take are from Lanturn. 4 Speed EVs are useful in that Snover will be able to outrun 0 Speed Rhydon. Shifting all of the HP EVs into Attack is an option, as this will allow Snover to KO Accelgor and Galvantula with Ice Shard after Blizzard. This will also enable Snover to use Wood Hammer in order to damage Cryogonal. Snover can also use max Speed if you're worried about stuff like faster Rhydon and Druddigon. Finally, Leech Seed is an option instead of Giga Drain or Protect because it still racks up damage on the opponent, but keep in mind that Snover won't usually be around long enough to use it more than once.</p>

<p>Pokemon that benefit from hail are a must when adding Snover to your team. For starters, Glaceon, Rotom-F, Jynx, and Regice can make use of strong, perfectly accurate STAB Blizzards, and are generally useful on offensive hail teams. Defensive hail teams can utilize Walrein, Glaceon, Vanilluxe, or Glalie to stall with SubProtect sets by recovering HP through Leftovers and Ice Body. Cryogonal can remove entry hazards for Ice-type teammates and fire off Blizzards as well; Cryogonal can also save Snover's Focus Sash if it is not used as a lead. However, while it is tempting to use all of these Ice-types on one team, keep in mind that they all share similar weaknesses and it is unwise to use more than two.</p>

<p>In order to patch up the weaknesses of hail teams, Pokemon who can handle Fire- and Fighting-types, such as Slowking and Poliwrath, are excellent teammates. Entry hazards are appreciated in order to further wear down things that Snover can dent such as Entei. Even Toxic Spikes are usable because Amoonguss and Roselia will have very limited switch-in opportunities against a team with multiple Blizzard users. Uxie and Qwilfish excel at setting up entry hazards on hail teams, as they both resist Fighting and Qwilfish also resists Fire-type moves.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Perhaps the most effective alternative set would be a SubSeed set with Eviolite. However, the number of Pokemon it can set up on is scarce; the list is limited to Lanturn, defensive Omastar, Qwilfish, and very few others. Therefore, it is best used with a Calm nature and max HP and Special Defense. Snover can also function as a user of Choice Specs or Choice Scarf to either hit harder or surprise the opponent by outspeeding it, respectively. These sets are not as effective at wearing down an opposing Pokemon, though. A physically attacking set with Swords Dance, Wood Hammer, Ice Punch, and Ice Shard can be used, though it is no where near as effective as a specially attacking set. Snover also gets two usable support moves in Light Screen and Toxic, which can aid a teammate.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Snover is so frail that almost anything can beat it one-on-one, though your main goal is to prevent Snover from damaging your team. Fire-types such as Entei, Emboar, Typhlosion, and Magmortar resist all of Snover's moves and can KO with a STAB move, though using Flare Blitz would be quite suicidal. Escavalier and Klinklang are the best Steel-type counters to Snover, but Escavalier must be careful of Hidden Power Fire. Klinklang can even use Gear Grind to break through Snover's Focus Sash. Other Pokemon that can KO Snover through its Focus Sash are Cinccino, Crustle, and Rhydon. Cryogonal is one of the best switch-ins to Snover, as it doesn't take any damage from hail and takes pitiful damage from all of Snover's attacks due to its high Special Defense. Pokemon with Thick Fat such as Miltank and especially Hariyama are also able to shrug off everything that Snover can throw at them. All of the above Pokemon are also very efficient at taking down hail teams as a whole. However, the number one way to deal with hail is to change the weather, so Pokemon such as Uxie will have no trouble with this after Snover faints.</p>