[Overview]

<p>Spiritomb is one of only three fully evolved Pokemon in the game with no type weaknesses at all. Its typing gives it handy immunities to Normal-, Fighting-, and Psychic-type attacks, making it a potent spinblocker that can beat almost all of RU's prominent Rapid Spin users with the right set, including Hitmonchan, Kabutops, and Cryogonal. Furthermore, it is one of the only Pokemon that checks some of the most powerful threats in RU, namely Sigilyph, Gallade, and Slowking, and one of the best Pursuit trappers. Its decent mixed attacking stats let it go either physical or special, but they will almost always require a significant boost to be of much use. However, Spiritomb's lack of attacking options and reliable recovery are setbacks that can cause your team to lose momentum. All in all, Spiritomb is a great Pokemon in the RU tier, but not one that immediately threatens your opponent's team.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Shadow Sneak
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Pursuit
move 4: Trick / Will-O-Wisp
item: Choice Band / BlackGlasses
ability: Pressure
nature: Adamant
evs: 248 HP / 252 Atk / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Spiritomb's primary set is an all-out attacking set that plays numerous roles for a team. It heavily relies on prediction, although BlackGlasses slightly remedies this issue; nevertheless, it is a great set to eliminate Rapid Spin users such as Cryogonal, which will take heavy damage from a Choice Band-boosted Pursuit. Hitmonchan and Kabutops don't want to switch into Spiritomb either, as they risk getting neutered by Will-O-Wisp. Spiritomb can also get rid of other Ghost-types that prevent your team from eliminating hazards, either by beating them to the punch with Sucker Punch as they try to go for the 2HKO or by trapping them with Pursuit as they switch to a teammate on a predicted Sucker Punch.</p>

<p>However, it is advised to be careful when using a Choice Band Sucker Punch, as Spiritomb then becomes setup fodder for bulky sweepers that can take the Sucker Punch with a reasonable amount of health left and proceed to sweep the rest of your team, such as Feraligatr. Shadow Sneak is a great asset late-game, as all of your opponent's Pokemon will be weakened, allowing it to 2HKO nearly everything that doesn't resist it with the help of entry hazards. It is also a good countermeasure against Bulk Up Gallade, and OHKOes offensive Rotom after Stealth Rock. The last slot is mostly dependent on the item Spiritomb holds. Trick is the recommended move to go along with a Choice Band, crippling Eviolite users such as Ferroseed, walls that won't hit that hard such as Steelix, or Pokemon that rely on their coverage to be effective, such as Absol. Will-O-Wisp is recommended with BlackGlasses, as being locked into it is usually not the best idea. It cripples Pokemon such as Hitmonchan and Kabutops, which rely on their offensive presence in order to be effective Rapid Spin users.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If you're worried about Dusknoir outspeeding Spiritomb and staying in to burn it as Spiritomb tries to use Pursuit, a spread of 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe will allow Spiritomb to move first and safely pick off any Dusknoir with less than 40% HP whether they switch out or not. However, those Speed EVs will most likely be useless in any other scenario. Choice Band is the preferred item, as Spiritomb needs all the power it can get and especially appreciates the extra power boost on Shadow Sneak late-game. However, BlackGlasses is superior if you prefer crippling physical attackers to trapping walls; furthermore, it also eases prediction. Pain Split is an option in the last slot to regain some health, then switch out. However, because Spiritomb will be locked into the move if it runs Choice Band, it will usually end up healing a wall than healing itself. Return is Spiritomb's strongest option against Dark-type foes such as Absol and Drapion, as well as most Pokemon that aren't weak to either of Spiritomb's STAB options. However, it isn't used because the utility provided by Spiritomb's other moves exceeds its need for coverage. Toxic is an option over Will-O-Wisp, but this does more damage to bulky walls rather than physical attackers, and Trick is the superior option to cripple walls.</p>

<p>Steelix, Ferroseed, and Aggron wall this set to kingdom come, although none of them appreciate a burn nor being Tricked a Choice Band. Sandslash can beat Steelix, as well as Aggron that lack Magnet Rise, and can easily pull off a Rapid Spin with no Ghost-type opponents to block it. It also sets up Stealth Rock to complement Shadow Sneak. Ferroseed is a great partner to provide Spikes support, as along with Spiritomb, it can take on almost every physical attacker in the tier, with the lone exception of Entei. Also, Spiritomb pairs well with Pokemon that use Hi Jump Kick such as Hitmonlee and Medicham, as they are free to spam the move without worry once all Ghost-types are out of the way. This set gives Qwilfish nothing to fear, leaving it free to set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes that will hamper your team. Feraligatr provides great complementary offense alongside Spiritomb, as more often than not they are able to weaken each other's checks so one of them can sweep. Likewise, Magneton is also a great partner, as it can trap Steel-types that get in the way of Spiritomb while also disposing of Qwilfish.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Dark Pulse
move 3: Rest
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Leftovers
ability: Pressure
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike the all-out attacking set, which focuses on hitting as hard as possible right away, this set aims to set up a sweep over a long period of time, hitting from the special side. Note that this is not the Pokemon for offensive special sweeps; you are better off using Uxie or Lilligant for that. Calm Mind boosts Spiritomb's average Special Attack, while also making it increasingly harder to KO with each boost. Dark Pulse is the STAB mono-attacking move of choice, as it is the most powerful move that Spiritomb has in its arsenal with no Pokemon that are immune to it. Rest provides recovery, extending Spiritomb's sweep, although with it you are forced to run Sleep Talk to avoid becoming setup bait. While asleep, Spiritomb can do any of three things: hit something hard with Dark Pulse, boost its stats further, or give your opponent a free turn by selecting Rest. However, Rest and Sleep Talk are necessities, as Pain Split generally doesn't cut it as an effective recovery move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum investment in HP and Defense allows Spiritomb to set up more easily, as it will already be boosting its Special Defense with Calm Mind. Leftovers further enhances Spiritomb's longevity, which is key with this set. Hidden Power Fighting is an option over Sleep Talk to increase coverage on Pokemon such as Clefable, as well as Steel-types. However, leaving an opposing Pokemon free to set up for two turns is usually not the way you win games.</p>

<p>Bulky special walls that can phaze are too much for Spiritomb to handle; Mandibuzz resists Dark Pulse while Munchlax is absurdly bulky with its Eviolite, and both can phaze with Whirlwind. As such, Manectric is a great partner for this set, as it can destroy Mandibuzz with its STAB Electric-type moves and cripple Munchlax heavily by using Switcheroo to take its Eviolite away. Also, Spiritomb sets up on Clefable, so Moltres is another great partner that can finish up the game after Spiritomb has done its job. If you are looking for a physical attacker, then Rhydon is a good partner that can destroy Mandibuzz and other special walls with its gargantuan Attack stat and STAB on the EdgeQuake combination.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Will-O-Wisp
move 2: Foul Play
move 3: Rest / Pain Split
move 4: Sleep Talk / Sucker Punch / Taunt
item: Leftovers
ability: Pressure
nature: Careful / Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Spiritomb's auspicious Ghost / Dark typing makes it the only Ghost-type in RU not weak to Dark-type attacks, or any other attacking type for that matter. This excellent typing means that Spiritomb is the only spinblocker that is not afraid of Pursuit users. Not only that, but it makes an excellent counter to a plethora of Psychic-types such as Uxie and Mesprit. Spiritomb's grand Special Defense coupled with its RestTalk shenanigans also makes it the best counter available to the premier defensive Rapid Spin user, Cryogonal. For these reasons, this Spiritomb is a staple on many balanced and stall orientated teams.</p>

<p>The first move, Will-O-Wisp, significantly diminishes the attacking power of most physical sweepers; this in turn helps patch up Spiritomb's Defense. Will-O-Wisp is also useful for chipping away at special attackers such as Magneton. Foul Play is another way Spiritomb can take on physical attackers, as it can use their power against them and make them hesitant when using physical boosting moves such as Swords Dance. Foul Play's utility is so great that it gives Spiritomb the capability to OHKO Entei after Stealth Rock damage. Rest works well in conjunction with Sleep Talk. RestTalk Spiritomb has many advantages: it always prevents Cryogonal from spinning away entry hazards, defeats many weak walls such as Amoonguss, is an excellent status absorber, and exploits its stalling capabilities via Pressure. Pain Split is a slightly less reliable form of recovery, but it can actually turn Spiritomb's low HP stat into an advantage by recovering more health from the likes of Alomomola. The use of Pain Split provides another distinctive advantage by freeing up an additional moveslot. In that moveslot, Sucker Punch can be used to pick out weakened offensive threats such as Archeops, or Taunt can provide a way to make slower walls helpless.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Calm nature is best used when Spiritomb is not utilizing Sucker Punch, as it reduces the damage taken from Foul Play. If Sucker Punch is used, then a Careful nature is best. In light of other options, Protect works in the final slot by allowing Spiritomb to accumulate Leftovers recovery, stall for burn damage, and ease up prediction when dealing with the likes of Escavalier. While Spiritomb's specially defensive spread allows it to counter Cryogonal and other special attackers, a physically defensive spread with an Impish nature is just as successful in other ways. The physically defensive spread gives Spiritomb a chance to beat Kabutops and makes it a great counter to Normal- and Fighting-types such as Tauros and Gallade; the latter in particular is very threatening for slower teams. When this physically defensive spread is combined with Spiritomb's ability to spread burns, very few physical attacker have the ability to break through it. For example, Choice Band Aggron and Escavalier can usually defeat Spiritomb, but when it uses this physically defensive spread and burns the two threats on the switch, at best, they can only achieve a 3HKO.</p>

<p>Spiritomb pairs well with Pokemon that can deal with Fire-types because most Fire-types could care less about anything Spiritomb can do, as they easily power through it with their high-powered STABs. Qwilfish is one of the best at dealing with these threats and it aids Spiritomb in many ways; not only does Qwilfish deal with the likes of Durant, Emboar, and Entei, but it can also set up Spikes, which helps Spiritomb wear down the opposing team faster. Spiritomb's spinblocking ability can help keep those Spikes on the field, and it can also check Electric- and Psychic-types that trouble Qwilfish. Poliwrath can check the same threats as Qwilfish and can also phaze with Circle Throw; this trait compliments Spiritomb's ability to keep entry hazards from being blown away well. Roselia, Lanturn, and Clefable all make fine defensive partners for their ability to rid Spiritomb of status afflictions. Roselia can set up Toxic Spikes and put a threatening Pokemon to sleep, Lanturn is another bulky Water-type that can take on pesky Fire-types, and Clefable can provide Stealth Rock and Wish support. Ferroseed also works well with Spiritomb as it can provide entry hazard support and counter Kabutops fairly well. Physically defensive Spiritomb, Alomomola, and Steelix make an excellent core, as the three can check almost all physical attackers in RU. Steelix benefits the core by providing entry hazard support in Stealth Rock and phazing utility in Roar, Spiritomb keeps Stealth Rock from being spun away and checks Fighting-types, and Alomomola beats physical Fire-types and passes Wishes to the other two.</p>

<p>Seeing as how this Spiritomb can fit on balanced teams, offensive partners can also be just as helpful. Medicham and any other Fighting-type destroys annoying Steel-types such as Aggron and Steelix, and Spiritomb can return the favor and beat the Psychic- and Ghost-types that Medicham hates. Magneton can also deal with Steel-types such as Escavalier by trapping and then demolishing them with Hidden Power Fire. Finally, because Spiritomb lures in Choice-locked Fire-types, Water-types such as Omastar and Kabutops are useful to take advantage of that by setting up a Shell Smash or Swords Dance, respectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Spiritomb has a couple of other setup moves in its movepool that it can make use of. Curse is a perfect move for Spiritomb's stat spread, but sadly, Spiritomb is a Ghost-type, meaning it will only lose half its health when it uses Curse. Nasty Plot could work, although the Calm Mind set outclasses it. Also, while Spiritomb has access to Taunt, it is too slow to make any use of it, although it could work well in tandem with Sucker Punch. Spiritomb also gets both Rain Dance and Sunny Day, but Uxie is a better team supporter with its access to Stealth Rock, Thunder Wave, and U-turn.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mandibuzz is the best counter to Spiritomb. It takes almost nothing from both physical and special sets, can use Taunt to avoid status and Trick, and phazes Calm Mind boosts with Whirlwind. Steelix is another solid counter to Spiritomb, although it doesn't like burn or getting Tricked a Choice Band as much. However, it still resists every move in Spiritomb's arsenal and can use either Roar or Dragon Tail to phaze. Klinklang can avoid status through the use of Substitute, and can set up to +6 with little to fear. Aggron isn't hit hard at all by Spiritomb, and OHKOes even the defensive set after only a little residual damage. Hariyama simply wants to get burned to activate Guts, and can set up Bulk Up to prepare a sweep. Druddigon is bulky enough to take a couple of hits and hits hard with Outrage, OHKOing the defensive set with two layers of entry hazards. Entei can't be burned, has good bulk, and also OHKOes the defensive set with two layers of entry hazards. Poliwrath easily sets up on Spiritomb, and a Choice Band-boosted Shadow Sneak won't break its Substitute after just one Bulk Up. Finally, Magneton is very bulky with Eviolite and can set up a free Substitute, slowly boosting its Special Attack with Charge Beam while Spiritomb can't do anything back to it.</p>