[Overview]

<p>As the bulkiest Fighting-type in the tier, Throh lives up to its reputation, tanking most hits with ease. In addition, Throh receives the excellent move Circle Throw, which doubles as a phazing move, allowing Throh to beat most set up sweepers one-on-one. Sadly, Throh isn't unbreakable. For one, its only recovery option is the unreliable Rest, while secondly, it is also weak to Flying- and Psychic-type moves, both of which are somewhat common. Furthermore, Throh also faces serious competition from the likes of Gallade, Gurdurr, and Poliwrath. Don't let this discourage you from using Throh though, as it will surely shine if you give it a chance.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulk Up
move 1: Bulk Up
move 2: Circle Throw
move 3: Payback / Stone Edge
move 4: Rest
item: Leftovers
ability: Guts
nature: Careful
Evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set, Throh's bread and butter, utilizes its combination of surprisingly decent 120 / 85 / 85 defensive stats, Bulk Up, and Circle Throw to turn it into a bulky, powerful, and nearly unstoppable monster. The EVs are standard for a Bulk Up user, and allow Throh to take special hits as well as possible, as it physical Defense will be boosted by Bulk Up. After a single Bulk Up boost, Throh becomes incredibly difficult to take down. Circle Throw is Throh's main niche, as Pokemon who attempt to set up on Throh will be mercilessly forced out as Throh laughs. Payback gives Throh near-perfect neutral coverage, and allows it to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types, such as Rotom. Stone Edge is also an option to hit Flying-types such as Moltres harder, while still denting Ghost-types, although its low accuracy and PP may pose an issue. Sadly, Rest is Throh's only method of recovery, but it does allow Throh to restore its health, as well as get rid of status conditions, such as poison and burn. Guts is the ability of choice because it allows Throh to benefit from certain status moves, such as Dusknoir's Will-O-Wisp.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because Circle Throw forces switches, hazards greatly increase Throh's usefulness. With just Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes on the opposing side of the field, Throh's damage output is increased significantly. Qwilfish is an excellent Spiker, as is Crustle. Throh also likes to have strong Pursuit users for teammates. Pokemon such as Drapion and Spiritomb are excellent choices to take down Psychic-types, such as Kadabra and Duosion, that threaten Throh. Toxic is a viable option, but Throh loses significant coverage without Payback. Uxie and Miltank make excellent teammates, as they can set up hazards and awaken Throh from Rest with Heal Bell. Throh also appreciates teammates that can provide it with Wish support; Clefable is a good choice because it can also use Heal Bell. Throh works well with a physical wall, such as Tangrowth, that can tank stronger physical hits for it. Substitute can be used over Rest, but without recovery, Throh's longevity will be greatly shortened. Taunt is also an option over Rest, but recovery is usually superior, as Circle Throw already deters set-up sweepers and Rest can cure Throh of status.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Throh doesn't have many other options, as Circle Throw is really its one and only niche. Storm Throw can be used over Circle Throw because it is Throh's most powerful move without a drawback. Body Slam can be used for the paralysis rate, but Throh has trouble finding a moveslot for it. Revenge, Brick Break, and Superpower are all options, but again, Circle Throw is the main reason one would use Throh over other Bulk Up Users. A Substitute + 3 attacks set or a Choice Band set can be used, but Throh is usually outclassed in this by other Fighting-types, such as Hitmonlee and Sawk. Throh can also set up weather for a team, as it is very bulky, but as it doesn't abuse any particular weather well, there are usually better choices for this.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Despite Throh's imposing bulk, it is far from unbreakable. Most slow Ghost-types can handle Throh relatively well, burning it and taking middling damage from weak Paybacks. Flying-types also make mincemeat out of Throh; even after a Bulk Up, their strong STAB attacks still give Throh trouble. Psychic-types that pack STAB moves, such as Kadabra, Gallade, and Slowking can be problematic for Throh to face as well. Additionally, Throh is most vulnerable when it is Resting, as it becomes a sitting duck that can be taken down by repeated assaults. Qwilfish is a good counter, as it can lower Throh's Attack with Intimidate and Taunt it. However, do note that Qwilfish is forced out by Circle Throw.</p>