[Overview]

<p>As an unspoken law of competitive Pokemon, there must always be a good reason to use NFE Pokemon, since most of them generally lack good competitive traits. Speaking in terms of the RU metagame, Togetic fortunately doesn't fall too much in this category, being able to sponge a number of attacks in RU while being able to recover the damage with Roost. Togetic's defensive prowess is made even better by the introduction of Eviolite, which improves its ability to take attacks by a landslide.</p>

<p>Togetic's actual role, however, is a different story. Rather than embrace the stereotype of a pure wall with status and recovery, Togetic provides offensive support through the combination of Nasty Plot and Baton Pass. Unfortunately, in addition to the generation's new boons, Togetic also runs into new competition with the likes of Volbeat, who can pass Special Attack boosts reliably as well (with Prankster to boot). Keep Togetic's limitations in mind, or else that team slot can be filled by something more substantial to your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Roost
move 4: Hidden Power Flying / Thunder Wave
item: Eviolite
ability: Serene Grace
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Baton Pass is Togetic's main reason for residing in RU, and fortunately, it has the tools to do its job successfully. Thanks to its natural bulk and the defensive boosts provided by Eviolite, Togetic can set up a Nasty Plot on a various number of foes (including dedicated walls and strong attackers), and proceed to pass its boosts to a special attacker at any time you wish. In conjunction with recovery in Roost, Togetic's fantastic bulk also enables it to pass boosts multiple times if needed, which is a major benefit to using it over similar Baton Pass users, especially Volbeat.</p>

<p>In the last slot, an attack is recommended to fend off users of Taunt, which stop Togetic from completing its main task. Hidden Power Flying offers decent mono-attacking coverage, while Thunder Wave is an option to cripple any non-Ground-type foes that might come in Togetic's way, and helps Togetic and its recipient overcome faster opponents. If Togetic isn't needed for Baton Pass, it can serve a backup support role with the combination of Roost and Thunder Wave.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Investing in bulk gives Togetic a better chance of sponging attacks and passing its boosts; therefore, simply maximizing HP and Special Defense to become specially defensive will suffice in most cases. Because of Togetic's boosted defenses, however, you may opt to invest some EVs into Speed to outspeed certain threats. Taking an excessive amount of EVs from either stat will result in a notable decrease in bulk, however, so be considerate of which foes Togetic must absolutely outspeed. Ideally, neutral-natured Pokemon that sit below the base 60 range, such as Beartic, Machoke, and Ampharos, are worth trying to outrun. For example, to outrun neutral base 50 Speed Pokemon with no investment, Togetic can invest 84 EVs in Speed.</p>

<p>To ensure Togetic's operation goes smoothly, it should be paired with teammates that can deal with the predicted users of Taunt, Encore, and other forms of volatile status. If taking these foes out with force alone proves to be difficult, a Taunt user of your own could at least prevent the use of conditions and statuses that would get in Togetic's way. Drapion is one of many good candidates for this because of its relatively good defensive typing and access to utility moves, such as Toxic Spikes and Pursuit, should your team need them. As for recipients of the boosts, they should be able to maintain their presence both offensively and defensively so Togetic's efforts aren't gone to waste. Recipients of note include Focus Sash Kadabra, Rotom-A, Sceptile, and Manectric.</p>

<p>Although packing defensive synergy isn't entirely necessary because of Togetic's low Speed and straightforward role, it's still a good idea to pack teammates that attract moves for Togetic to switch into. As Togetic specializes in taking neutral and resisted special attacks, Electric-, Water-, or Ground-type Pokemon are able to lure in resisted moves. For instance, Lanturn synergizes well with Togetic thanks to its typing, Volt Absorb, and weaknesses to Grass- and Ground-type attacks, both of which Togetic can easily brush off. Additionally, Lanturn also provides paralysis support if Togetic needs to outspeed certain foes. To avoid Stealth Rock damage and take full advantage of Togetic's bulk, Rapid Spin support, preferably from the likes of Kabutops or Cryogonal, is also advisable, but not entirely necessary.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Togetic certainly has the tools to perform a dedicated supporting role, but keep in mind that even with its options and Eviolite-boosted defenses, it's not as formidable as its seniors: Chansey and Togekiss. Fortunately, thanks to Roost and its good defenses, Togetic can cripple the majority of the offensive RU metagame with paralysis while surviving in the long-term. Togetic also has access to Heal Bell and Encore to support its team and cripple paralyzed foes attempting to set up on it. On a dedicated Baton Pass team, special mentions go to Substitute (for temporary protection for recipients) and Stored Power (a powerful option after acquiring multiple boosts). Offensively, however, Togetic really has nothing else to abuse Serene Grace with, unlike Togekiss. In fact, without Air Slash, it has to resort to Extrasensory and Headbutt in order to perform the paraflinch combination. These moves usually aren't worth it because of Extrasensory's lower flinch chance and Headbutt's pathetic power. Overall, dedicated attacking sets usually leave much to be desired due to Togetic's low Speed and relatively limited options in the offensive department.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Since Togetic's only actual goal in RU is to pass Special Attack boosts, the most straightforward way to stop it is by simply by foiling the plans of either Togetic or its recipient. In the case of Togetic, volatile status, such as Encore and Taunt, is the easiest method of stopping it from using Baton Pass, thereby forcing it to either switch out or retaliate with a weak attack. Trying to stop Togetic with brute force is slightly less efficient due to its bulk and low Speed, which in itself, is an advantage because the recipient can switch in unscathed as Togetic takes the attack. Should Togetic's opponent resort to attacking, Togetic can be worn down through the repeated use of super effective moves and Stealth Rock damage. The Baton Pass chain can be foiled by phazing out the recipient, which can be achieved by using users of Haze, Roar, and Dragon Tail. A prime example of such a Pokemon would be Steelix, who is almost guaranteed to ruin the strategy with its high Defense, Sturdy, and access to both Roar and Dragon Tail.</p>