[Overview]

<p>Uxie is one of the most incredible Pokemon in the RU tier. It has access to an astounding array of support moves, including but not limited to: Stealth Rock, Thunder Wave, Yawn, Rain Dance, Reflect, and Light Screen. These options make it a top choice for many teams. In addition, due to its singular Psychic typing and Levitate, Uxie has quite a few useful resistances, not to mention an immunity to the commonly used Ground-type attacks. However, what really sets Uxie apart from the many other support Pokemon in RU is its amazing stat spread. With incredible 75/130/130 defenses coupled with its nifty base 95 Speed and passable offenses, Uxie has several tricks up its sleeves. U-turn and Memento can allow it to serve well on offensive teams that need the momentum it builds, while Uxie's access to Calm Mind and its sturdy bulk can allow it to even play offensive sets with ease. However, despite its many strengths, Uxie does suffer from a few shortcomings. Its offenses are somewhat lackluster prior to setup, and it's often easy to set up hazards, or powerful sweepers that Uxie has trouble damaging. Despite this, Uxie is one of the most versatile Pokemon in the tier, and fits solidly on many teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Standard Support
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Thunder Wave / Yawn
move 4: U-turn 
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 152 Def / 104 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its excellent movepool and defensive bulk, Uxie is capable of playing a supporting role quite handily on many teams. It serves as an excellent catch-all check to a number of dangerous sweepers, and is generally capable of letting its user set the pace of the match in their favor. Stealth Rock is arguably the single best move in the game, and RU has a rather limited number of viable Stealth Rock setters, thus it's usually present on nearly every defensive Uxie moveset. Psychic gives Uxie some offensive presence, allowing it to dissuade Pokemon such as Roselia and Qwilfish from laying hazards against it with impunity. Thunder Wave is capable of preventing Pokemon such as Shell Smash Omastar and the like from setting up against Uxie, whereas Yawn forces switches with ease and prevents setup to a small extent. Thunder Wave has greater mid-game utility, however, as it allows Uxie to cripple dangerous sweepers such as Lilligant and Sceptile. Finally, U-turn rounds off the set very well, giving Uxie an out against Pursuit users such as Choice Band Spiritomb and Absol, which would otherwise trap and easily rip Uxie apart. U-turn also allows Uxie to bring in sweepers for free and build momentum.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With the listed EVs, Uxie has enough speed to outrun max Speed Jolly Emboar while max HP gives it a decent amount of bulk. The remaining EVs are pumped into physical defense, to allow Uxie to sponge hits from Pokemon such as Druddigon, Aggron, and Feraligatr. If Absol is not a significant problem, Uxie can opt to run a bulkier spread of 252 HP / 240 Def / 16 Spe, allowing it to outrun max Speed base 55s, while also letting it take significantly stronger hits without much trouble. If one's team has trouble handling specially oriented threats, Uxie can opt to run a spread of 252 HP / 240 SpD / 16 Spe, allowing it to better combat Pokemon such as Magmortar. Uxie can also utilize max Speed, letting it tie with base 95s and paralyze anything slower. Finally, Uxie can opt to run offensive spreads, taking full advantage of Psychic's ability to KO standard Qwilfish and 2HKO some Roselia with minimal Special Attack investment. Defensive spreads are usually better tailored to Uxie's strengths, however.</p>

<p>As mentioned, Uxie possesses quite the spectacular support movepool. Memento can be used over U-turn to allow Uxie to build greater momentum and set up for incoming sweepers, but it is generally inferior to U-turn when using a purely defensive set as it forces Uxie to play more recklessly early in the game. Heal Bell can be a useful option over any move, as it provides key support for many offensive teams, but if used over Psychic, Uxie suffers against Taunt users, and if used over any of Uxie's supporting moves, Uxie loses out on either the ability to set up hazards or halt sweepers. Knock Off can be used over any of Uxie's moves as well, allowing it to cripple many defensive Pokemon that rely heavily on Leftovers, as well as those that rely on Eviolite. Finally, Uxie possesses a few offensive options that can be used over any of its moves, such as Giga Drain and Thunderbolt, although due to Uxie's somewhat lackluster offenses, they aren't particularly powerful.</p> 

<p>Thanks to its incredible versatility, Uxie can fit easily into a number of teams. Offensive teams that struggle if the opponent sets up a sweeper can house Uxie perfectly, thanks to its access to Stealth Rock, U-turn, and Thunder Wave, while defensive teams offer Uxie Wish support to further increase its longevity, while also taking advantage of its ability to check the vast majority of common RU threats. As stated, Uxie appreciates Wish support, and notable Wish users that partner well with it include Clefable, Alomomola, and Flareon. In addition, Uxie suffers heavily against strong Bug- and Dark-types, thus making fast and strong Fighting-types such as Hitmonchan and Hariyama excellent partners for it. Uxie also pairs well with Ghost-type resisters, such as Aggron and Klinklang. However, due to its unique blend of stats and its stellar movepool, Uxie can find its home on any number of teams with relative ease.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Calm Mind
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Psychic / Psyshock
move 4: Thunderbolt 
item: Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 96 HP / 188 SpA / 224 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Even though Uxie is normally used for defensive roles, more offensively oriented Calm Mind sets are capable of catching many of Uxie's common switch-ins off guard, as Pokemon such as Absol and Spiritomb that expect to switch in against Uxie for free will find themselves taking hefty hits. Substitute and Calm Mind form the crux of the set, allowing Uxie to set up without fear against Pokemon such as Slowking and Clefable; Pokemon that would be able to hit it with Toxic if Uxie lacked Substitute, or break its Substitutes without Calm Mind boosts. Psychic or Psyshock should be used as Uxie's obligatory STAB move, with each having its own advantages. Psychic hits harder against the majority of the tier, helping Uxie handle Rotom, Amoonguss, and Qwilfish with relative ease, while also letting it dent Steelix. Psyshock, on the other hand, allows Uxie to win Calm Mind wars and beat through Cryogonal, who would otherwise Haze away its boosts. Finally, Thunderbolt is the best option for Uxie's final moveslot, hitting Moltres and Slowking hard, while also letting Uxie dent Absol, Drapion, and Spiritomb.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Uxie's EV spread allows it to outspeed standard Rotom-A and either set up against it or outright KO it with Psychic. 96 HP EVs are used in order to allow Uxie to switch in against Life Orb Moltres's Fire Blast and set up a Calm Mind while surviving, then letting it proceed to KO with Thunderbolt. Finally, the remaining EVs are pumped into Uxie's Special Attack in order to give its hits a little more power behind them. Uxie can also opt to use max Speed, with a spread of 96 HP / 160 SpA / 252 Spe, allowing it to tie with Drapion, potentially enabling a late-game sweep. Uxie also has a number of solid move options that can be used over Thunderbolt. Giga Drain can provide Uxie with a little bit of extra HP in a pinch, but is generally useless against a number of common Uxie checks. Hidden Power Fire or Hidden Power Fighting can also be used over Thunderbolt, the former demolishing Ferroseed, while the latter hits Absol and Crawdaunt super effectively, although it leaves Uxie open to Mandibuzz and Spiritomb. Generally though, Thunderbolt is simply the best option for Uxie's coverage moveslot.</p>

<p>In order to be effective, Substitute + Calm Mind Uxie requires quite a bit of support. Entry hazards are helpful in wearing down Pokemon such as Spiritomb and Steelix, which can be difficult for Uxie to break through. In addition, Uxie appreciates having teammates who resist its weaknesses, most notably Dark- and Ghost-types, as those are two relatively common offensive types in RU. Bulky Fighting-types, such as Hitmonchan and Poliwrath are capable of taking nearly all of the Dark-type moves aimed at Uxie, while bulky Steel-types handle the Ghosts. Magneton is an excellent choice in this respect, as in addition to resisting many of Uxie's weaknesses, it also traps Steelix, which Uxie has trouble breaking through. Finally, Uxie really appreciates Wish support, as Substitute can wear down its HP remarkably quickly. Notable Wish supporters include Clefable and Alomomola.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: U-turn / Memento
move 4: Stealth Rock / Thunder Wave 
item: Light Clay
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its incredible stat distribution and access to momentum building moves such as U-turn and Memento, as well as the ability to set up Reflect and Light Screen against nearly every Pokemon in RU, Uxie is one of the most efficient dual screen users in the tier. Uxie is capable of providing all of the most dangerous sweepers in RU with the ability to set up with little trouble, while also setting the pace of the match in favor of its user. Reflect and Light Screen are key to the set, halving the damage from physically and specially based attacks, respectively. However, the most crucial moves of the set are Memento and U-turn. The former allows Uxie to bring in a sweeper and allow it to set up freely, while the latter keeps Uxie alive to potentially set up screens later in the game, while also building momentum and possibly getting in a sweeper undamaged. Stealth Rock is the best move for Uxie's last moveslot, as the majority of teams that utilize dual screen Uxie are heavily offensively based and lack space for Stealth Rock anywhere else on their team. However, Thunder Wave can also be used to cripple dangerous threats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Uxie's EVs allow it to set up screens before being hit by attacks from Entei, Rotom, and some Drapion, all of which significantly damage Uxie if it doesn't have a screen up. However, Uxie can also utilize an EV spread of 252 HP / 240 Def / 16 Spe, giving it significantly more bulk, while also making U-turn more effective, allowing Uxie to use it to bring in frail sweepers without them taking damage. Uxie can also make use of a spread of 252 HP / 160 Def / 96 Spe, allowing it to outspeed Absol, although it can't hurt it outside of U-turn.</p>

<p>When using dual screens, there's only one type of team that Uxie fits well onto: pure offensive. Thus, powerful offensive Pokemon such as Swords Dance Gallade, Belly Drum Linoone, and Shift Gear Klinklang pair very well with Uxie. In addition, they synergize decently with its resistances, although dual screens Uxie can be played recklessly, with little focus on its resistances and immunity, but rather its sole focus being to set up screens. This allows Memento to be used well, as it can weaken Pokemon enough that some of the most dangerous sweepers in the tier, such as Omastar and Sceptile are also capable of setting up unhindered. While it only really fits well on hyper offense, dual screens Uxie is undoubtedly one of the most effective dual screen users in the tier.</p>

[SET]
name: TrickScarf
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Stealth Rock
move 3: Zen Headbutt / Thunder Wave
move 4: Trick
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Jolly 
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Boasting a rather quick base Speed, along with excellent bulk, Uxie makes quite an effective Choice Scarf user. It's capable of thoroughly muddling many common switch-ins, which suffer heavily if given a Choice Scarf. In addition, Uxie possesses the useful ability to outspeed many common Taunt users and set up Stealth Rock prior to being hit by Taunt. U-turn is an excellent move on the set, allowing Uxie to scout out the opponent's moves, and pivot through the opponent's team, gaining momentum. Stealth Rock, Thunder Wave, or Zen Headbutt can be used in any of Uxie's next two moveslots, with each having their own advantages and disadvantages. Generally, Zen Headbutt should be used, as it gives Uxie some offensive presence, allowing it to make use of the fact that it outspeeds the entire metagame. However, being locked into a Psychic-type move is a slight disadvantage, as it makes Uxie open to being trapped by Pursuit users. Stealth Rock is a very helpful option, with the entry hazard being useful on nearly every single team out there. Finally, Thunder Wave can be used in order to allow Uxie to perform as a clutch check against Pokemon such as Lilligant. Trick should be used in Uxie's final moveslot, as it's capable of royally messing with a huge number of common Uxie switch-ins.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With max Speed, Uxie is capable of outspeeding everything up to +1 Drapion, whom Uxie ties with. However, bulkier EV spreads can be used, such as 252 HP / 32 Def / 224 Spe, which allows Uxie to outrun +1 positive nature base 90s, such as +1 Moltres and Lilligant. Alternatively, a spread of 252 HP / 72 Def / 184 Speed is capable of outrunning Modest Rotom-A and everything slower. Uxie can also opt to run a more offensive EV spread, to better make use of Zen Headbutt, but such spreads are usually better left to Mesprit, who boasts significantly stronger offenses. As Uxie is an excellent momentum gainer, it partners well with other Pokemon that appreciate having the opponent's team scouted out, including other U-turn and Volt Switch users. In addition, as with any other Uxie set, TrickScarf Uxie really appreciates being paired with Pokemon that resist Dark-, Bug-, and Ghost-type attacks. Bulky Fighting- and Steel-types are usually the best options for this, such as Hariyama and Aggron.</p> 

[SET]
name: Weather Support
move 1: Sunny Day / Rain Dance
move 2: U-turn / Memento
move 3: Stealth Rock
move 4: Heal Bell / Psychic
item: Heat Rock / Damp Rock
nature: Impish / Bold
evs: 252 HP / 240 Def / 16 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Weather teams have proven at times to have quite a dominating performance in RU, and Uxie is undeniably one of the best weather supporters. Its excellent Speed and defenses, along with access to U-turn and Memento make it the ideal choice for nearly all the sun and rain offense teams in RU. Sunny Day or Rain Dance is the necessary support move of the set, preparing the maelstrom of offensive pressure from either sun or rain sweepers. U-turn and Memento are capable of providing free switch-ins for Uxie's teammates, with U-turn usually being the more useful move, keeping Uxie alive to set weather up again later in the game if need be, while Memento is useful for allowing weather abusers that set up, such as Growth Shiftry and Swords Dance Kabutops, apply their stat boosts with ease. Stealth Rock is a nifty support option, as it's hard to fit onto some weather teams, while either Heal Bell or Psychic can be used in Uxie's last moveslot, with Heal Bell curing any statused weather abusers, and Psychic giving Uxie some mild offensive presence.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Uxie's EVs outspeed max Speed base 55s, while giving it enough bulk to handle hits from pretty much every common sweeper in the tier without too much trouble. Uxie can run maximum Speed, which is most useful in conjunction with Memento, as it allows it to near assuredly set up weather and then proceed to Memento and open up the path for a sweeper to come in freely. It can also opt to run minimum Speed with U-turn, allowing it to survive hits from pretty much any Pokemon in the tier to set up weather, then take a hit from the opponent and U-turn out to a weather sweeper, allowing them to switch in unscathed. Finally, Uxie can take more offensive routes, such as when using Psychic, although they usually aren't as useful, as it's best to allow the weather sweepers to take advantage of the weather to sweep rather than trying to punch holes with Uxie.</p>

<p>Uxie's teammates are entirely dependent on whether it is using Sunny Day and Heat Rock or Rain Dance and Damp Rock. With Sunny Day sets, Tangrowth, Charizard, and Shiftry all make excellent teammates. They all can take advantage of the sun in some way, either to set up and sweep with Tangrowth and Shiftry, or in Charizard's case, simply punch enormous holes in everything. Shiftry is especially useful, due to its Dark typing giving it some nifty resistances that pair well with Uxie. When using Rain Dance teams, Uxie goes well with Gorebyss, Ludicolo, and Huntail. If it's using Memento, however, Kabutops and Omastar both pair very nicely with Uxie, as it can allow them to freely set up.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Uxie has quite the spectacular movepool. In terms of support options, it has access to Safeguard and Heal Bell, the former preventing harmful status inflictions, and the latter removing them. Uxie also has access to Magic Coat, which can help it in rather lopsided lead match-ups, such as against Smeargle and Aerodactyl, while also scoring some surprise advantages when an opponent's Mandibuzz attempts to hit Uxie with Toxic or Lilligant tries to hit it with Sleep Powder. Finally, Amnesia, though gimmicky, can make Uxie nearly invulnerable on the special side. Finally, although it lacks any sort of reliable recovery, Uxie has access to both Rest and Sleep Talk, which can allow it to use its awe inspiring bulk and cleanly wall a number of common RU Pokemon.</p>

<p>Uxie also has a number of decent offensive options available to it as well. Thanks to its decent Speed, it can pull off offensive Calm Mind sets relatively well, although it's generally outclassed by Pokemon with higher Special Attack, such as Gardevoir and Mesprit. In addition, Uxie is capable of using Choice Band and Choice Specs movesets decently, although again, it's outclassed by Mesprit. Finally, Uxie really does have a stellar offensive movepool, with access to Shadow Ball, Charge Beam, Grass Knot, and Signal Beam, although generally none of them are all that useful.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to its astounding versatility, Uxie can be relatively difficult to counter; however, there are a couple of Pokemon that handle it well in nearly any given situation. Fast Taunt users such as Aerodactyl and some Qwilfish can shut down the majority of Uxie's moveset early on, although they must be wary of Thunderbolt and Psychic, respectively. In addition, many Dark-types, such as Skuntank, Drapion, and Spiritomb really have nothing to fear from Uxie, regardless of its set, and can switch-in easily and threaten to KO with their STAB moves. Powerful Ghost-types such as Spiritomb and Rotom are also capable of ripping away a chunk of Uxie's HP without much trouble, although Thunder Wave and Toxic can hurt. Strong Bug-types, such as Scyther, Escavelier, and Scolipede are also capable of ripping Uxie to shreds with powerful STAB U-turns and Megahorns. Finally, at the end of the day, it's easy enough to break through Uxie simply by abusing its lack of reliable recovery and pummeling it with high powered attacks.</p>