[Overview]

<p>Despite its poor reputation and downfall from OU, Whimsicott still has a niche in RU. With Prankster and a seemingly endless list of good support moves including Stun Spore, Taunt, Encore, Memento, and Tailwind, Whimsicott can provide support for a variety of teams; this includes, and is not limited to: spreading status through Stun Spore and Toxic, using Taunt to prevent the opponent from setting up, and providing Sunny Day support for a sun team. However, due to its lackluster offensive stats, Whimsicott is limited to a supporting role. Unfortunately, Whimsicott's bulk is also mediocre, and its lack of a reliable recovery move is a major disappointment. Finally, after Whimsicott performs its job, it will usually become dead weight, as it poses no threat offensively and has no way outside of Leftovers and Leech Seed—which is blocked by opposing Grass-types—to recover its health. Whimsicott has a good Grass typing, but it faces competition from other Grass-types such as Tangrowth and Sceptile. Nevertheless, if you're looking for a Grass-type pivot that can prevent the opponent from setting up, spread paralysis, and scout the opponent, Whimsicott will have no trouble filling that role.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Stun Spore
move 2: U-turn / Memento
move 3: Encore
move 4: Taunt / Giga Drain / Leech Seed
item: Leftovers
ability: Prankster
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Whimsicott's best set, and can be manipulated to fit onto a wide variety of teams. Prioritized Stun Spore is extremely annoying for the opponent, especially when it can paralyze Ground-type Pokemon that are normally immune to Thunder Wave—this can greatly aid a slower sweeper, such as Magmortar, and give it the opportunity to sweep. U-turn gives Whimsicott the ability to scout the opponent and safely bring in a teammate after it has successfully paralyzed the foe. If you would like to bring in a teammate that is a setup sweeper, then Memento may be more appealing, as it will most likely force the opponent to switch out, giving your sweeper a free turn to set up. Encore is another reliable way to force switches and aid setup sweepers, as forcing your opponent to continually use a move such as Protect will provide a massive setup opportunity for a teammate. The moves in the first three moveslots are mainly for team support, and should always be used in tandem with slow offensive Pokemon or setup sweepers.</p>

<p>The last slot is more dependent on your team's needs. Taunt can prevent any Pokemon without Magic Coat or Magic Bounce from setting up; this is especially useful if you have a Pokemon such as Moltres that is weak to entry hazards, as Whimsicott can almost always prevent Stealth Rock from being set up using Taunt. Giga Drain is Whimsicott's best weapon against the likes of Rhydon, Omastar, Kabutops, Feraligatr, and other Water- and Rock-types; note that Whimsicott cannot touch these Pokemon if it is not running Giga Drain. Finally, Leech Seed can be used to increase Whimsicott's longevity and force switches, which is very useful on a team with multiple layers of entry hazards. However, do not use Leech Seed in tandem with Substitute, as Whimsicott will be easily walled by opposing Grass-types and thus have more trouble supporting your team.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>252 HP and 252 Defense EVs are used in order to take as many physical hits as possible from the likes of Kabutops and Feraligatr; most special attackers would beat Whimsicott regardless of investment, such as Moltres, Magmortar, and Sceptile, and its Grass typing is more effective for walling physical threats in RU. A Bold nature is used to raise Whimsicott's Defense; it lowers Attack, but because Whimsicott's Attack stat is already very low, U-turn should not be used for dealing damage.</p>

<p>Thanks to its plethora of support moves, Whimsicott's moveset is extremely flexible—mix and match to your heart's content. Tailwind is quite useful, as it will raise the Speed of Whimsicott and its teammates for four turns; slower Pokemon, such as Magmortar and Feraligatr, benefit most from this. If Whimsicott's team doesn't need paralysis support, Stun Spore can be replaced with Toxic, an alternative status move. Toxic is handy as it wears down opposing walls and cripples faster Pokemon that tend to use Substitute, such as Sceptile. Finally, Light Screen can be used to support Whimsicott's team and give it more opportunities to spread paralysis.</p>

<p>As for teammates, Magmortar benefits the most from Whimsicott. It greatly appreciates paralysis support, as its low base 83 Speed hinders its ability to sweep; it also enjoys the safe switch-in opportunities that Whimsicott's U-turn brings. Setup sweepers, such as Omastar, Lilligant, Mesprit, Feraligatr, Crawdaunt, Gallade, and Linoone love Whimsicott's Memento or Encore support, as it forces the opponent to switch and helps them set up more easily. Linoone especially likes to have this support, as it will be able to set up Belly Drum without worrying about being KOed in the process. Pokemon that are weak to Stealth Rock or Spikes, such as Moltres and Magmortar, really enjoy having Whimsicott as a teammate, as Whimsicott can prevent hazards from being set up by even the fastest Pokemon, such as Aerodactyl, with Taunt. Whimsicott benefits from Pokemon that can eliminate Bouffalant and Sawsbuck, as they both have the Sap Sipper ability and will gain an Attack boost if they are hit by Stun Spore, Giga Drain, or Leech Seed; Spiritomb, Steelix, and Fighting-types are all good options, as they can burn, wall, and severely damage the opponent, respectively. Entry hazards take their toll on Whimsicott, so Rapid Spin support is appreciated, especially from the likes of Kabutops, as Whimsicott can help it set up a Swords Dance with Encore.</p>

[SET]
name: Sunny Day Support
move 1: Sunny Day
move 2: Taunt
move 3: U-turn / Memento
move 4: Encore / Memento / Leech Seed
item: Heat Rock
ability: Prankster
nature: Impish
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set capitalizes on Whimsicott's Prankster ability and access to Sunny Day to make a formidable weather setter. Prankster is its biggest advantage over other sun setters, as it allows Whimsicott to almost always set up sun before the opponent can react. Once Whimsicott sets up sun, it should either use U-turn and switch into a teammate that can take advantage of the sun or use Memento to allow a free setup turn for a sun sweeper. Whimsicott should not be setting up sun on offensive behemoths, such as Gallade and Druddigon, as doing so will usually leave Whimsicott fainted due to its fragility. Instead, Whimsicott should be setting up the sun on weaker defensive Pokemon, such as Ferroseed and Alomomola.</p>

<p>Taunt is a useful utility move that Whimsicott has access to, as it prevents setup sweepers such as Kabutops from boosting their stats. As previously mentioned, U-turn allows Whimsicott to switch out once it has set up the sun while Memento allows a sun sweeper a free setup turn. The last slot is a toss-up between Encore, Memento, and Leech Seed. Encore is the recommended option, as it can lock the foe into an unfavorable move, giving Whimsicott more opportunities to set up. Memento is once again an option to give sun sweepers free setup opportunities. Leech Seed can be used, however, to provide a way of healing for Whimsicott and its teammates once it has switched out.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Whimsicott to take weaker physical moves, such as Spiritomb's Shadow Sneak and Ferroseed's Gyro Ball. Despite maximum investment in Defense, Whimsicott still cannot take on powerful physical attackers, so always be cautious. Whimsicott can use Stun Spore to paralyze the foe. This is extremely beneficial for slower Pokemon without Chlorophyll, such as Entei, which is given the opportunity to slaughter the foe's team with a Choice Band-boosted Flare Blitzes. Toxic can be used to provide residual damage, but it is generally inferior to Leech Seed, as it does not recover Whimsicott's health. Due to Whimsicott's lack of recovery, it is recommended to have a Wish user such as Alomomola to keep it healthy.</p>

<p>There are two types of Pokemon that benefit from Whimsicott's sun support: Pokemon with the Chlorophyll ability and Fire-types. Chlorophyll users, including Sawsbuck, Exeggutor, Shiftry, and Victreebel, can make use of the sun Whimsicott provides as well as a potential free setup turn from Memento. Effective Fire-type partners include Charizard, Emboar, Moltres, Entei, and Typhlosion, as all of these Pokemon enjoy their Fire STAB being boosted by the sun. It is also recommended to have another sun setter, such as Regirock or Uxie, just in case Whimsicott faints or sacrifices itself with Memento.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>If you thought that Whimsicott's movepool ended there, then you've guessed wrong. Whimsicott has a plethora of other options, but they're relatively poor compared to the options already mentioned. It can use Switcheroo to cripple an opponent with a Choice item or status Orb. Cotton Guard sharply raises Whimsicott's Defense, but Whimsicott doesn't have a lot to do outside of Leech Seed, and will become rather useless. Cotton Spore can be used to lower the opponent's Speed, but Stun Spore is usually better at slowing down the opposition. Fake Tears is a move that lowers the target's Special Defense stat, and can be used to deal more damage with Giga Drain or SolarBeam. An offensive set with Growth, Giga Drain, Hidden Power Rock or Fire, and Shadow Ball will surprise the opponent, but sadly, one Growth won't cure Whimsicott's terrible base 77 Special Attack stat. A Sunny Day set with SolarBeam is also an option, but again, Whimsicott can't put SolarBeam to much use because of its poor Special Attack. Tickle is another move that affects the opponent's stats, lowering the target's Attack and Defense by one stage. Whimsicott has access to Trick Room, but Whimsicott cannot make use of it due to its high Speed. Hurricane can be used to hit opposing Grass-types such as Sceptile, Tangrowth, and Lilligant, but sadly, Whimsicott does not learn Rain Dance so it will be stuck with a 70% accurate move. GrassWhistle, although it has horrible accuracy, can infuriate the opponent if it hits. <strong>It is strongly advised to not use the SubSeed combination on Whimsicott under any circumstances, as it is walled by a plethora of Pokemon, mainly Grass-types, and generally ends up being a waste of a teamslot</strong>.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Pokemon with Sap Sipper, such as Bouffalant, Miltank, and Sawsbuck, are immune to and get an Attack boost if hit by Stun Spore, Leech Seed, and Giga Drain. Cryogonal is another great check, as it can spin away Leech Seed and hit hard with Ice Beam. Roselia completely walls Whimsicott, as it can cure itself of status upon switching out with Natural Cure and can kill Whimsicott with Sludge Bomb; Amoonguss is similar to Roselia, but dislikes being Encored. Escavalier doesn't mind being paralyzed, as it already has terrible Speed, and it can OHKO Whimsicott with a STAB Megahorn. Braviary can OHKO Whimsicott with Brave Bird, U-turn (which will do quite a bit of damage if Whimsicott chooses to stay in) if Whimsicott tries to U-turn or switch out to a Pokemon that beats Braviary, and thanks to Defiant, gets an Attack boost from Memento. Anything that can OHKO Whimsicott will force it to switch out or KO if it uses a support move. This includes Accelgor, Archeops, Drapion, Entei, Galvantula, Jynx, Magmortar, Moltres, Scolipede, Scyther, Sigilyph, and Typhlosion. Rotom-C and Entei can check Whimsicott well, but they dislike paralysis. Thus, Pokemon with Heal Bell, such as Clefable and Miltank, are good at combating Whimsicott as they can rid their team of Whimsicott's paralysis. Pokemon with Natural Cure, such as Altaria and the aforementioned Roselia, also don't mind paralysis, as they will be cured upon switching out. Natu and Pokemon with Magic Coat such as Smeargle can reflect Whimsicott's moves, rendering Whimsicott useless. Lastly, Whimsicott gets worn down easily, especially by entry hazards, as it will be constantly switching in and out. Constant pressure from any of the above Pokemon will lead to Whimsicott's downfall.</p>