[Overview]

<p>Baltoy is a Pokémon who is often underestimated and overlooked. However, it boasts some important qualities that make it worth considering for a slot on your team; it has a great support movepool, which includes Stealth Rock, Rapid Spin, and Trick Room, and is bulky enough to use these moves effectively. Access to dual screens is another major bonus for Baltoy. Its resistances to common attacking types such as Fighting and Rock and great ability, Levitate, only further Baltoy's defensive credentials. Its offensive movepool is no joke either: Baltoy has access to Earthquake, Zen Headbutt, Explosion, Psychic, Earth Power, Shadow Ball, and Ice Beam, which, in tandem with its decent Speed stat, makes Baltoy quite a potent offensive threat. All in all, though Baltoy's stats are lacking, its phenomenal movepool more than compensates for this, making it a very viable Pokemon in Little Cup.</p>

[SET]
name: Rapid Spin
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Rapid Spin
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Earth Power / Explosion
item: Oran Berry
nature: Bold / Relaxed
evs: 196 HP / 236 Def / 36 SpA / 36 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The aim of this set is to support your team with Stealth Rock and Rapid Spin. As Ghost-types will be constantly switching in to block Baltoy's Rapid Spin, Shadow Ball is a necessary weapon, hitting Gastly and Drifloon very hard and making Duskull think twice about switching in. The final move should be selected depending on what you want Baltoy to hit harder. Earth Power gets STAB and demolishes Croagunk and Stunky, two Pokémon that would normally threaten vulnerable Psychic-types like Baltoy with Sucker Punch or Pursuit, easily OHKOing Croagunk and potentially doing the same to Stunky. On the other hand, Explosion destroys Munchlax and Mantyke. Oran Berry will grant Baltoy extra longevity, giving it more time to support the team. A Bold nature is preferred in order to improve Baltoy's lower Defense stat. However, if Explosion is being used on this set, a Relaxed nature is preferred to prevent Baltoy from losing a point in Attack. The EVs maximize Baltoy's physical bulk, and the remaining EVs give an extra point apiece to Baltoy's Special Attack and Special Defense stats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Psychic would give Baltoy a secondary STAB outside of Earth Power, but Shadow Ball is generally the better option because it hits all Ghost-types, not just Gastly, for super effective damage. Reflect can be used in the last slot to reduce the damage taken from Pursuit users, but Earth Power and Explosion are preferred since they can remove said Pursuit users directly.</p>

<p>Mantyke, Houndour, Snover, and Magnemite are all great partners for this set, as they also have good synergy with Baltoy. For example, Mantyke benefits greatly from Baltoy’s talents, as Baltoy can clear Stealth Rock for Mantyke while also easily taking the Electric- and Rock-type attacks that threaten. Houndour can take Ice-, Ghost-, and Dark-type attacks aimed at Baltoy, while Baltoy is immune to the Ground-type attacks and resists the Fighting-type attacks that plague Houndour. Unfortunately, Baltoy and Houndour share a weakness to Water-type attacks. In Snover's case, Baltoy resists Snover’s weaknesses to Fighting- and Rock-type attacks, while Snover resists Baltoy’s weaknesses to Water- and Grass-type attacks. Magnemite is probably the best partner to Baltoy, as they have near-perfect synergy. Magnemite can take any Grass-, Ghost-, or Dark-type attack, while Baltoy resists Fighting-type attacks and is immune to Ground-type attacks. More importantly, Magnemite traps Bronzor, which beats this set with ease (assuming Bronzor carries Hidden Power Ice). Poison-types such as Croagunk and Stunky are also good teammates because they can take Grass-type attacks for Baltoy while Baltoy is immune to the Ground-type attacks that they fear. Finally, Normal-types such as Munchlax are immune to Ghost-type attacks, and Baltoy resists Fighting-type attacks.</p>

<p>Pokémon that are adept at removing Ghost-types help Baltoy exponentially, as Ghost-types can block Rapid Spin and threaten Baltoy with their STAB moves. Stunky, Munchlax, and other Pursuit users can trap and KO most Ghost-types, which greatly increases Baltoy's usefulness.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Stealth Rock / Zen Headbutt
move 4: Explosion
item: Muscle Band / Oran Berry
nature: Relaxed / Brave
evs: 196 HP / 196 Atk / 76 Def / 36 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Baltoy's decent bulk and fairly low Speed allow it to be a competent user of Trick Room. Earthquake and Zen Headbutt give Baltoy two very powerful STAB attacks, and Explosion allows Baltoy to go out with a bang whenever it chooses. However, Stealth Rock is preferred over Zen Headbutt because Baltoy doesn't really have the offensive capabilities to pull off a sweep by itself. Explosion is critical to this set because it can potentially remove a wall from the game, thus paving the way for a teammate to sweep. Muscle Band pumps up all of Baltoy's attacks, but Oran Berry can be used instead to increase Baltoy's survivability. A Relaxed nature is preferred, but, if the lack of power is an issue, a Brave nature can be used to net Baltoy an extra point in Attack.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Pokémon with high Defense shut this moveset down. For example, Bronzor resists Zen Headbutt and Explosion, is immune to Earthquake, and threatens Baltoy with Hidden Power Ice. As a result, Magnemite is a good partner for this set; Magnemite can trap and kill Bronzor, as well as being able to make good use of Trick Room. Since the goal of this set is to set up Trick Room, Pokémon with low Speed and high attacking stats make decent teammates at the very least. Machop, Snover, Cubone, and the aforementioned Magnemite all have the potential to reach extremely low Speeds and have access to extremely powerful attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Stealth Rock
move 4: Explosion
item: Light Clay
nature: Impish
evs: 196 HP / 196 Atk / 76 Def / 36 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Baltoy, with its nice typing and decent defenses, can run dual screens competently enough. This set aims to give setup sweepers the chances they need to raise their stats, as dual screens halve the damage that these sweepers would usually take. Reflect and Light Screen are naturally the core of this set, allowing your whole team to take only half damage from most attacks. Stealth Rock provides additional support, if needed. It should be noted that Stealth Rock should be used before either screen in order to maximize the number of turns that Baltoy and the rest of the team have under the screens’ protection. Explosion is a nice option on Baltoy, allowing a sweeper to get a clean switch-in. An Impish nature is necessary to bolster Baltoy's middling Defense, while the EVs are used to maximize its HP and Attack. The remaining EVs are used to add an extra point to Baltoy's Defense and Special Defense.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Setup sweepers are this Baltoy's best friends. They will absolutely love having 6 turns of one screen and 5 turns of the other (assuming Baltoy switches out or uses Explosion the turn after it uses the second screen). Chinchou, Krabby, and Houndour are great partners for this set. However, it should be noted that the first two share a Grass-type weakness with Baltoy. Pokémon that set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes are also good partners for this set, as they too can assist setup sweepers. Tentacool, Pineco, and even Budew are all great candidates for this role.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Earth Power
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Ice Beam / Shadow Ball
move 4: Explosion
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Mild / Hasty
evs: 36 HP / 36 Atk / 196 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Baltoy has decent Speed, which, in combination with its great movepool, allows it to run a Choice Scarf set reasonably well. With a neutral nature and maximum investment, Baltoy hits 15 Speed; with a Choice Scarf equipped, it hits 22 Speed. Not only does Baltoy now outspeed all unboosted Pokemon, but it also beats all Pokemon that hit 21 Speed with a Choice Scarf. Earth Power is a great STAB move for Baltoy to have, as it has good power and a 10% chance of lowering its opponents' Special Defense. It also will make Stunky think twice before switching in. Psychic is Baltoy's secondary STAB, and is the Psychic-type equivalent of Earth Power. Psychic nets a quick KO on all Gastly that switch in thinking that Baltoy is going to use Earth Power or Explosion. Ice Beam hits Gligar and other Ground-types for super effective damage, and as Baltoy is immune to Ground-type attacks, it will be easy to switch in on these targets. However, as Shadow Ball hits all Ghost-types for super effective damage, it is also worth consideration. Finally, Explosion will dent any Munchlax that thinks it can come in and easily sponge a special attack. A Mild nature is preferred, so Baltoy gets an extra point in Special Attack, but a Hasty nature can be used for two more points in Speed. If you choose to give Baltoy a Speed-boosting nature, Baltoy can be considered a revenge killer for Dragon Dance Dratini. The EVs maximize Baltoy's Special Attack and Speed, and an extra point is thrown into Baltoy's HP and Attack.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If Baltoy chooses the wrong move, it will lose badly to Pursuit users. If it chooses Psychic or Shadow Ball, Stunky can come in and kill Baltoy with Pursuit. If Baltoy doesn't choose Explosion, Munchlax can come in and KO with Pursuit. In addition, Gastly, in addition to other Levitating Ghost-types, can come in on Earth Power and set up. Good teammates to this set include Choice Scarf Fighting-types and Pursuit users of your own. Choice Scarf Mankey and Machop easily revenge kill Munchlax and Stunky, while Pursuit users beat most Ghost-types. An option on this set is to run Hidden Power Fire in the third slot, or Bronzor will wall this set all day long. However, this is inadvisable because Baltoy will lose coverage against both Ground-types and Ghost-types.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There aren't a lot of other options for Baltoy, as almost all of the bases are covered by the listed sets. Baltoy can run a physical Choice set, but would lose to Bronzor and Ghost-types not named Gastly. Gravity is an interesting option, but Baltoy would then lose its coveted immunity to Ground-type attacks. Recycle can restore Baltoy’s Oran Berry, and could be used in conjunction with Substitute and Calm Mind, but then Baltoy would lose to Munchlax way too quickly. Finally, AncientPower can be used to hit Bug-, Ice-, and Flying-types for super effective damage.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Baltoy actually has a lot of counters. If Baltoy does not carry Explosion, Munchlax beats it with ease. Stunky can come in on any non-Ground-type move not named Explosion, and put Baltoy in a "checkmate" position with Sucker Punch and Pursuit. Bulky Water-types like Mantyke also fare well against Baltoy. Buizel also beats Baltoy, and Carvanha sports an immunity to Psychic-type attacks and can threaten Baltoy with Waterfall and Crunch. Grass-types also do a good job of stopping Baltoy. Choice Scarf Shroomish can take any attack except Explosion and either KO Baltoy with Seed Bomb or put it to sleep with Spore. Choice Scarf Paras works exactly the same way, except that it can also KO Baltoy with X-Scissor. Snover has Blizzard and Energy Ball, both of which do a nice job of taking out Baltoy. Porygon can tank an Earth Power or Psychic, and then KO Baltoy with Ice Beam.</p>