[Overview]

<p>Buizel can be one of the most devastating Pokémon in Little Cup for good reasons. With a positive Speed nature and maximum Speed EV investment, Buizel hits 19 Speed, easily outspeeding most of the metagame, as well as tying with many others. With the rain up, its Speed doubles, making it the fastest Pokemon at +2 in Little Cup. In addition, it can Baton Pass both Bulk Up and Agility, and its good defensive stats (factoring in defensive EVs and Bulk Up's Defense boost) and Speed allow it to perform this job pretty well.</p>

<p>However, one cannot say that Buizel is without faults, because it most certainly does face some problems. Though Buizel has good offensive and Baton Pass support potential, it usually has to pick between offense and bulk, leaving it deficient in at least one. Despite these downfalls, Buizel can certainly be a great addition to your team.</p> 

[SET]
name: Rain Dance Attacker
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Aqua Jet
move 3: Return
move 4: Bulk Up / Ice Punch / Brick Break
item: Life Orb
nature: Jolly
evs: 236 Atk / 36 SpD / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Buizel's primary sweeping set. With only a bit of support, this set can cut through unprepared teams like a hot knife through butter. As the set name implies, this set best works in the rain. Waterfall is Buizel's main means of attacking, with decent Base Power, STAB, and perfect accuracy. Aqua Jet allows Buizel to also function as a revenge killer outside of rain, picking off faster, weakened threats before they can attack. Return pairs well with the previous moves, as the combination of Water and Normal is unresisted in this metagame. Finally, what goes into the last moveslot boils down to what you want Buizel to hit harder. Bulk Up is the primary option, as Buizel appreciates the extra boost in power, but Ice Punch is a decent substitute because it hits Dragon-types such as Dratini and Bagon harder in the rain, even OHKOing the former. Outside of rain, Ice Punch hits Gligar harder than Waterfall, though it will only OHKO the defensive variants 50% of the time. Finally, Brick Break guarantees an OHKO on Carvanha, and outside the rain, does more damage to Pokémon weak to Fighting, such as Aron and Munchlax. A Life Orb is essential on this set, giving Buizel the extra power that it needs to sweep efficiently. The EVs maximize Buizel's Attack and Speed, and the remainder is used to give Buizel an extra point in Special Defense.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>This set loves Rain Dance support, because Buizel needs the extra power on its Water-type attacks the Speed increase for sweeping. Six turns of sweeping is generally enough for Buizel to tear holes in the opponent's team. Great Rain Dance supporters include, but are definitely not limited to: Voltorb, Bronzor, and Drifloon. This set also greatly appreciates Stealth Rock support, as it can turn numerous 2HKOs into OHKOs. For example, Buizel can OHKO Carvanha with Return if Stealth Rock is up, so it no longer has to rely on Brick Break for the guaranteed KO, though it should be noted that Buizel would be switching into Carvanha, not the opposite. In addition, with Stealth Rock on the field, Buizel 2HKOes Swift Swim Mantyke with the combination of Aqua Jet and Return.</p>

<p>Though this set has great offensive potential, it still has flaws and solid counters. For one, Snover simultaneously resists Water-type attacks and puts an end to Buizel's rain. As long as Snover does not switch into Brick Break, it can OHKO Buizel with STAB Energy Ball. Mantyke can revenge kill this set with Hidden Power Electric. Mixed Priority Abuser Croagunk absorbs all Water-type attacks aimed at it, and can KO Buizel with Fake Out and Sucker Punch, but only guarantees itself an OHKO if Buizel has switched into Stealth Rock and taken at least one turn of Life Orb recoil damage. Munchlax can take on Snover any day of the week, and can easily revenge kill Mantyke. Bronzor is a great teammate for Buizel if Croagunk is a problem - it can take any attack that Croagunk can dish out and OHKO back with Psychic.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Bulk Up / Agility
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Aqua Jet / Waterfall
move 4: Return
item: Oran Berry
nature: Jolly
evs: 236 HP / 36 SpD / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The purpose of this set is to support the rest of the team with stat boosts. However, Buizel is capable of sweeping by itself after netting a couple of boosts. The first slot is what Buizel wants to pass - if the intended recipient needs Attack, then choose Bulk Up. If Speed is needed, then go with Agility. Baton Pass is absolutely essential for this set to work. In addition, Buizel can "dry pass" to scout for its switch-in. The third slot should complement Buizel's first move. If Bulk Up was chosen, then Aqua Jet is the desired move, allowing Buizel to strike first with a powerful blow. If Agility is being used, then Waterfall should be paired up with it, because Buizel appreciates the extra power. Return pairs well with either attacking move. Oran Berry gives Buizel extra longevity, which allows it to possibly get in a few more boosts before having to Baton Pass. The nature and Speed EVs allow Buizel to still tie other Pokémon in the 19 speed tier, while the remaining EVs maximize its ability to take hits.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Stealth Rock support is nice, but not really necessary. Sandshrew and Phanpy can set it up and also take Electric-type attacks aimed at Buizel, though both of them share a Grass-type weakness with Buizel. Hippopotas can also set up Stealth Rock, but Buizel doesn't enjoy the sandstorm Hippopotas summons. However, if the sandstorm isn't a concern, Hippopotas partners well with Buizel. Rapid Spin support is more important to this set, as Buizel will be constantly switching in and out, looking for an opportunity to successfully boost then pass. Sandshrew is a prime example of this, and also sports an immunity to Electric. However, Sandshrew, like Hippopotas, also shares a Grass-type weakness with Buizel. A good recipient for this set is Elekid. It doesn't take much damage from most Electric-type attacks, and appreciates the extra Attack or Speed.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Buizel's options are pretty much limited to the sets listed. It can run a decent special or mixed set, but they both are inferior options when compared to a pure physical set. A physical Choice set may seem viable, but the power difference between Choice Band and Life Orb in Little Cup is pretty negligible. An Agility set, in tandem with Substitute and a Liechi Berry, might sound interesting in theory, but Buizel would be easily beaten by priority.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although Buizel has a lot of offensive potential, it does have some hard counters. For one, Croagunk stops the first set cold, as long as it can avoid a predicted Return as it switches in. Phazers, albeit rare, can shut the Baton Pass set down if they can avoid being KOed by Aqua Jet and Return. Chinchou can beat any Buizel one-on-one, as it isn't even 2HKOed by Return (factoring in its Oran Berry). Snover is a great check to Buizel, as it can easily take a Waterfall or Aqua Jet, and only fears a predicted Brick Break. In addition, Snover's ability kicks up a hailstorm, which ends Buizel's sweep in the rain. Most bulky Grass-types, including Exeggcute, also fare well against any Buizel not carrying Ice Punch.</p>