[Overview]

<p>Carvanha is one of the most threatening sweepers in the Little Cup metagame. Its movepool, though rather shallow, is deep enough for it to run a few sets. Additionally, it has access to STAB priority in Aqua Jet, which is a godsend in the Little Cup metagame. Although Carvanha is very powerful offensively, it is incredibly weak defensively. Carvanha's paper-thin defenses are usually its Achilles' heel, and Croagunk easily shuts down Carvanha's rampage. In addition, any Pokemon that can outspeed Carvanha, resist Aqua Jet, and threaten with a STAB move can most likely defeat Carvanha with ease.</p>

<p>Overall, Carvanha can easily be considered one of the most fearsome Pokemon in the Little Cup metagame. If picking off weak Pokemon in late-game or doing a lot of damage in early-game is your cup of tea, definitely consider Carvanha for a team slot, because it certainly will not disappoint.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Aqua Jet
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Zen Headbutt / Waterfall
item: Life Orb
nature: Adamant
evs: 196 Atk / 36 Def / 36 SpD / 236 Spe
ivs: 0 HP

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is arguably Carvanha's most threatening set. Its ability to force switches makes it a perfect user of Substitute. The goal of this set is simple: come in on a Pokemon which will usually switch out of Carvanha, then put up a Substitute. With Carvanha's massive Attack stat, this shouldn’t be much of a problem. Aqua Jet is STAB priority, and is a staple on this set. Crunch beats all Ghost-types that attempt to switch in; even the most bulky Duskull are easily KOed. When behind a Substitute, Carvanha beats any Croagunk thinking they can switch in for free with Zen Headbutt. However, if Croagunk is easily handled by the rest of the team, Waterfall can be used for a stronger Water-type STAB. An Adamant nature is vital, because Carvanha needs to hit as hard as possible. The EVs maximize Carvanha's Attack and Speed stats, and the remaining EVs are thrown into Defense and Special Defense. Carvanha can hit 19 HP with 0 HP IVs, and this is recommended in order to minimize Life Orb recoil.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Pokemon that can take advantage of Carvanha's wallbreaking ability make great partners to this set. Wynaut is this moveset's number-one teammate, as it can use Encore to lock the opponent into a support move and then Tickle it. From there, Carvanha can put up "free" Substitutes. Wynaut can also effectively be used to remove a counter to Carvanha, such as the ever-annoying Croagunk. Elekid is another premier choice, because it can easily finish off teams weakened by Carvanha. Elekid has one of the highest Speed stats in the unboosted metagame, tied only by Voltorb and Diglett, and surpassed by none. Many Choice Scarf sweepers, such as Gligar, Gastly, and Mankey, can clean up teams nicely, and can easily pick off any Pokemon that Carvanha weakens. This Carvanha can also remove key threats on an opposing team, such as Croagunk, Ghost-types, and Hippopotas.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Aqua Jet
move 2: Waterfall
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Zen Headbutt
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Jolly
evs: 196 Atk / 36 Def / 36 SpD / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Carvanha, being the great sweeper it is, can also effectively run a Choice Scarf set. This makes Carvanha one of the best revenge killers in the game. The idea of this set is to come in when one of your teammates bites the dust, then pick the best move for the situation. Aqua Jet picks off faster, weakened threats, while Waterfall does a lot of damage to any Pokemon that does not resist it. Crunch is a secondary STAB move that KOes Gastly and Abra, and easily 2HKOes Choice Scarf Snover on the switch. With Stealth Rock, Carvanha has a 25% chance of OHKOing Snover on the switch. Also, Zen Headbutt picks off all Machop and, if Carvanha wins the Speed tie against Choice Scarf versions, Mankey. Additionally, Zen Headbutt OHKOes all Croagunk that expect a Water-type attack on the switch in. The Choice Scarf enables Carvanha to be a great revenge killer, and with a Jolly nature and maximum Speed investment, it hits 25 Speed, easily outpacing all non-Choice Scarf Pokemon as well as slower Choice Scarf users. The remaining EVs maximize Carvanha's Attack, and the rest are thrown into Carvanha's defenses.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The best teammates this Carvanha can ask for are Pokemon that can effectively remove Croagunk from the opponent's team. Gligar and Bronzor are ideal options for completing this task, as they can both OHKO Croagunk with their super effective STAB attacks (Earthquake or Aerial Ace in the former's case, and Psychic in the latter's). Wynaut is another good response to Croagunk, as it can trap and kill it thanks to Shadow Tag. After Croagunk has been removed from the game, this Carvanha should have little trouble sweeping through teams.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Because Carvanha is so offensively versatile, there are quite a few changes for it, outside of the listed sets. It has access to Rain Dance, but it really isn't bulky enough to set it up. Payback might look like a decent option on the Subvanha set, having higher power than Crunch if Carvanha goes second. However, Carvanha likes going first so it can deal damage (and hopefully KO) before being touched. Screech is actually a viable option, as it can halve a switch-in's Defense. This effectively doubles Carvanha's Attack, meaning that Carvanha will be able to deal a lot more damage. Carvanha can also effectively run a Choice Band or Choice Specs set, but the Subvanha set is almost always better, since the freedom to switch attacks is incredibly vital for Carvanha. Finally, Carvanha can run an Agility set with Substitute, which allows Carvanha to beat Choice Scarf Gastly and Choice Scarf Gligar, two checks to most Carvanha. However, it would generally be inferior to the listed sets. A mixed set is very viable, as Carvanha can run a decent set with Hydro Pump, Aqua Jet, Ice Beam, and Crunch, but is generally inferior to the Subvanha set.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Despite Carvanha's offensive prowess, it has quite a few checks. One of the best checks to any of its sets is Snover, as it resists Water-type attacks and can KO or scare off Carvanha with Energy Ball. In addition, Snover summons a hailstorm as it enters the battle, which racks up the residual damage that Carvanha absolutely loathes. In fact, any Pokemon that resists Water and outspeeds Carvanha can be considered at least a decent check. Also, having entry hazards up works wonders when playing against it: as it is constantly switching in and out of the battle, having it lose health every time it switches in helps exponentially when playing against Carvanha. Choice Scarf Machop, with its decent bulk, can tank an Aqua Jet and threaten Carvanha directly with a super effective STAB DynamicPunch, but only if Carvanha isn't behind a Substitute. If that's the case, Machop loses to a Zen Headbutt. Gligar, though weak to Water-type attacks, can revenge kill Carvanha with Earthquake, or can do a lot of damage with a Quick Attack.</p>