[Overview]

<p>Cleffa is one of the weakest Pokémon in Little Cup due to its generally mediocre stats. It's rather unfortunate, too, considering that Cleffa has an absolutely amazing movepool. Even a movepool as vast as Cleffa's can't overcome its many flaws, the most notable of which is the fact that it is KOed by just about every attack in Little Cup.  Cleffa does have access to the exclusive Magic Guard ability, which makes Cleffa immune to all forms of indirect damage and gives Cleffa a certain niche: an annoying Endeavor user. In general, however, steer clear from Cleffa unless you want to try something daring but new.</p>

[SET]
name: Endeavor
move 1: Endeavor
move 2: Protect
move 3: Toxic / Thunder Wave
move 4: Encore
item: Focus Sash
ability: Magic Guard
nature: Hasty
evs: 8 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Cleffa's poor base stats in order to take down at least one Pokemon with it. Cleffa's Magic Guard makes sure that it isn't affected by indirect damage from the likes of Stealth Rock, which allows Cleffa to keep its Focus Sash intact. Endeavor should be used on the first turn since with Cleffa's incredibly low Speed and defenses, it will likely be smashed down right off the bat. By then, Cleffa's Focus Sash will activate, and the opponent will be left with 1 HP, which is enough for it to be KOed by residual damage from hail or sandstorm. Protect allows Cleffa to scout for potential counters, such as Trick users, and also to anticipate what move the opponent is using when Cleffa has no use left after using Endeavor. Both Toxic and Thunder Wave are helpful for crippling Pokemon that are immune to Endeavor, hail, and/or sandstorm, such as Gastly, Swinub, and Diglett. Lastly, Encore can prevent opponents, such as Substitute and stat boosting users, from setting up on Cleffa. By doing this, Cleffa has another chance to KO the switch-in with Endeavor.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Hail can be used over the third slot if your team doesn't utilize Snover, but finding time to use it is hard. It's better to just put Snover in your team and preserve its health throughout the match. This set not only works with Snover's hail, but also with Hippopotas's Sand Stream ability. Sadly, there are more Pokemon immune to sandstorm than hail, making it a worse option. The 8 Speed EVs allow Cleffa to outspeed and use Endeavor on Bronzor after Cleffa has taken down an opposing Pokemon.</p>

<p>Snover is a key component to making this set work due to its ability to summon permanent hail. Hail helps pick off every Pokemon excluding Ice-types after they have been Endeavored. Snover is not the only viable team option, however, as Hippopotas's sandstorm is also a plausible tool. Any Pokémon with Pluck, such as Taillow, can be useful for countering Oran Berry users so that Cleffa's strategy doesn't get ruined. Due to this set only requiring specific weather support, it has no real necessary teammates besides the above weather-inducers.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Cleffa has a great amount of other options, but sadly it can't make good use of them due to its pathetic Speed. Trick can be used to steal the opponent's item after Focus Sash has been used, but Cleffa will usually die before pulling it off. Wish has the same problem, but it can be a rewarding option if there's time. With base 45 Special Attack, Cleffa could use special attacks such as Shadow Ball, Flamethrower, and Icy Wind, but it's better off destroying foes with Endeavor. Thunder Wave in conjunction with Swagger or Sweet Kiss can be annoying, and could even allow Cleffa to use Endeavor again. Lastly, if you're lucky enough, Sing can put a foe to sleep.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ghost-types such as Gastly and Drifloon are the best counters to this set as they are not affected by Endeavor. They can also use Substitute to block Cleffa's status moves and then attack, but they must beware of Encore. Oran Berry users are also major problems for Cleffa as the item activates before hail's damage takes effect, which allows the users to KO Cleffa afterward. Other "counters" are generally less effective as they will have their HP lowered to 1, but otherwise it's a step forward to defeating Cleffa. Pokemon immune to hail, such as Snover and Swinub, are decent counters to Cleffa. Likewise, Pokemon immune to sandstorm can counter Cleffa, but to a lesser degree as most Cleffa users utilize Snover instead of Hippopotas. If you lack any of the mentioned counters, then the best option is to sacrifice your current Pokemon to take down Cleffa's Focus Sash and KO it with another Pokemon.</p>