[Overview]

<p>If there is one thing to say about Diglett, it's that it follows in its evolution Dugtrio's footsteps. They both have pathetic defenses and an average Attack stat, but what makes them unique is Arena Trap. In Little Cup, Diglett is a threat that must certainly be watched out for. While it seems that Diglett lacks enough Attack to function as a revenge killer, don't let this fool you, as many Pokemon in Little Cup are not too defensively oriented. With powerful moves and absolutely amazing Speed, Diglett is definitely a unique Little Cup Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Sucker Punch / Shadow Claw
move 4: Protect
item: Focus Sash
ability: Arena Trap
nature: Jolly
evs: 36 HP / 236 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Diglett is tailored to be a successful revenge killer, it functions as a very effective lead as well. The qualities that make it a successful lead include Arena Trap (which gives it solid anti-lead capabilities), high Attack and Speed stats, powerful priority, and access to Stealth Rock. Arena Trap is particularly important, since it it stops your opponent from switching out of a bad lead match up.</p>

<p>Diglett is one of the most successful Stealth Rock leads in Little Cup, as its extraordinary Speed allows it to outpace nearly every lead outside of Voltorb, meaning it will almost always move first. Earthquake is Diglett's most powerful move and cannot be ignored on any set. The choice between Shadow Claw and Sucker Punch depends on your personal preference, as they both have their positive and negative points. Shadow Claw allows Diglett to deal with Substituting Ghost-types, such as Drifloon, all of the time, which Sucker Punch can't accomplish. Sucker Punch, however, is the strongest priority move in the game (tying with ExtremeSpeed), and it is necessary to pick off Focus Sashes and priority-using leads. Finally, Protect is a must in Diglett's fourth move slot. Lacking Protect will allow Fake Out leads like Meowth and Buneary to render Diglett's Focus Sash useless and defeat it after that with their STAB Returns.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Although it can frequently set up Stealth Rock, Diglett has problems with several other leads that are bulky enough to take a hit, such as Phanpy and Hippopotas. Phanpy's Ice Shard can finish Diglett off, and both Phanpy and Hippopotas can also set up their own Stealth Rock with ease. If you decide to use Sucker Punch, Diglett will certainly have problems with Drifloon leads, who can put Diglett to sleep with Hypnosis and KO it with Shadow Ball, or set up Substitute and Baton Pass to a Pokemon that can deal with Diglett. You will experience similar problems against Gastly; for this reason, Shadow Claw is probably the superior choice, hitting them even if they decide to set up Substitute. As always, opposing Bronzor, whether or not they are leads, will give Diglett problems. With Levitate and a decently powered Gyro Ball, Diglett will find that it is easily defeated. Snover can also demolish Diglett in one turn with its STAB Ice Shard or Blizzard, and the hail will eliminate Diglett's Focus Sash.</p>

<p>Having a Houndour partner up with Diglett can help your team immensely. Houndour can use its specially-based moves to pick on Phanpy, Gligar, and Hippopotas's weaker Special Defense and KO them; however, be wary of switching in Houndour against Earthquake. Houndour also resists Shadow Ball, meaning that it can switch in on either Drifloon or Gastly's Shadow Ball and retaliate with either Pursuit or Dark Pulse. Houndour is also capable of destroying Bronzor, sporting a resistance to Gyro Ball and immunity to Psychic; at the same time, Houndour also resists both of Snover's STAB attacks and can use Fire Blast to finish it off. While this set is played differently than the offensive sets, don't forget that Diglett can still make short work of the likes of Magby, Elekid, and Chinchou. To assist its sweeping process, it is advised that a Water-type that can pack a punch, such as Chinchou or Staryu, be partnered with Diglett to secure both an offensive and defensive combination, as they complement most of each other's weaknesses well.</p>

[SET]
name: Non-Choice Revenge Killer
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Substitute / Rock Slide / Shadow Claw
item: Life Orb / Focus Sash
ability: Arena Trap
nature: Hasty
evs: 240 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>When equipped with a Life Orb or Focus Sash, as opposed to Choice Band, Diglett is able to freely use all four of its deadly moves. This set can really threaten the Little Cup metagame, as Diglett is one of the best revenge killers available.</p>

<p>The main point that makes this set different from the others is the presence of Substitute. In the process of revenge killing, Diglett may sometimes manage to switch into a Choiced Electric-type move, so it can set up a Substitute for free and finish off the foe with the appropriate attack. Earthquake is Diglett's main STAB attack. Sucker Punch provides Diglett with a useful priority move that helps against Choice Scarfed foes that can OHKO Diglett. Note that if Diglett does have a Substitute up, and your opponent is faster than it and breaks Diglett's Substitute, you can almost be sure that it is Scarfed, a fact that can be exploited by the rest of your team. Next, Hidden Power Ice is necessary to combat Gligar; without it, Gligar will wall this set all day long, while able to launch Earthquakes that will OHKO Diglett instantly. Hidden Power Ice is also Diglett's best option (besides Aerial Ace) to hit Grass-types that resist Earthquake for super effective damage. If Substitute is not preferable, you may choose to use a Focus Sash as well. In this case, it is recommended that you use either Rock Slide or Shadow Claw for a broader range of attacking options.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Not too many Pokemon enjoy facing this Diglett, since it sports power, Speed, and powerful moves that can severely injure opponents. Unfortunately, there are also a number of Pokemon that make setting up Diglett's Substitute useless. Bronzor is the perfect counter, being immune to Earthquake while taking ridiculously low amounts of damage from anything else Diglett uses. It will have no trouble breaking Diglett's Substitutes either, as Gyro Ball is powered up to a great level due to Diglett's high Speed stat. Phanpy and Hippopotas are also fantastic at the job, being able to take an Earthquake and break Diglett's Substitute. Phanpy also boasts Ice Shard that can trouble Diglett before it can KO Phanpy. Next, priority users and Choice Scarfers are also problematic. If Diglett cannot OHKO them from behind its Substitute, it risks the threat of dying to a priority move. Its low defenses don't help either, and moves like Aqua Jet and Ice Shard tend to mark the end of Diglett's journey. These moves are usually wielded by the likes of Buizel, Carvanha, and the aforementioned Phanpy.</p>

<p>This Diglett pairs up perfectly with Water-types, especially Mantyke. Mantyke often attracts Chinchou, so Diglett can come in on its Thunderbolt and attempt to set up a Substitute. Mantyke can also clear Diglett's path to sweep by eliminating bulky Ground-types, most notably Gligar, Hippopotas, and Phanpy. Using a Pokemon to take out Bronzor, such as Houndour or Ponyta, is recommended to give Diglett an easier time sweeping. This set also faces difficulties against Ghost-type Substitute users, like Drifloon and Gastly, as they can avoid Diglett's Sucker Punch and take minimal damage from its Hidden Power Ice in Gastly's case. To remedy this problem, having Munchlax on your side can help; neither Drifloon nor Gastly will be able OHKO it, while it can trap them with Pursuit in return.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Revenge Killer
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Hidden Power Ice
move 3: Sucker Punch
move 4: Shadow Claw / Rock Slide
item: Choice Band / Choice Scarf
ability: Arena Trap
nature: Hasty
evs: 240 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Diglett is a prevalent and terrorizing force in Little Cup, as it can easily trap and dispatch of its opponents thanks to Arena Trap. Add a series of particularly powerful moves to the mix, and Diglett becomes one of the best revenge killers in Little Cup, able to OHKO a variety of Pokemon.</p>

<p>Earthquake is Diglett's most powerful attack. Even if it seems to lack the Attack stat to do much damage, a STAB Earthquake can actually strip off large amounts of health from anything that is not resistant or immune to it. Hidden Power Ice may seem odd on Diglett at first glance, but in fact, it is Diglett's only way to deal massive damage to Gligar, while also hitting other Grass-types that resist Earthquake for super effective damage. Sucker Punch is Diglett's best bet against Ghost-types, particularly Choiced ones like Gastly. Even if Diglett is already fast, Sucker Punch's priority can help it out against faster opponents and other users of priority attacks. The last moveslot has two interesting options. Shadow Claw is mainly used to keep Ghost-types from setting up against Sucker Punch, such as Drifloon and Gastly. On the other hand, Rock Slide can also be used to provide near perfect coverage alongside Earthquake (only resisted by Bronzor and Baltoy) and hit most Flying-types, such as Mantyke and Taillow, for super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Diglett can make great use of a Choice Band or Choice Scarf. With a Choice Band equipped, Diglett can have up to 22 Attack with a Hasty nature, which is quite reasonable. With a Choice Scarf equipped, Diglett can have up to 30 Speed with a Hasty nature, letting it outpace several Choice Scarfers, particularly Jolly Gligar. Unfortunately, it will have significantly less Attack than its Choice Band counterpart; therefore, when using Choice Scarf Diglett, know what Diglett can and cannot kill before sending it out to play.</p>

<p>To maximize Diglett's revenge killing potential, do it a favor by eliminating some of its common counters first. Bronzor completely destroys Diglett, as it laughs at everything Diglett uses and threatens to KO with Gyro Ball or Psychic. Magnet Rise Magnemite can be used because of this, setting up Magnet Rise to avoid Earthquake and beating Bronzor from there. Bulky Ground-types, such as Phanpy (who also has access to Ice Shard) and Hippopotas, can also survive a few of Diglett's attacks, and return with a death-inducing Earthquake. Staryu can deal with these threats by soaking them with its powerful Hydro Pump. To deal with Ghost-types that make prediction hard for Diglett, consider using Pursuit users, particularly Stunky. Stunky can easily switch in on their Shadow Ball and finish them off with Pursuit. In terms of helping Diglett defensively, Water-types work well with it. Mantyke in particular deserves a special mention for being bulky enough on the special side to take many Water-, Ice-, and Grass-type attacks aimed at Diglett. Mantyke also appreciates Chinchou being removed, which a Choice Scarf Diglett works exceptionally well at doing.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Diglett doesn't have too many other useful options to use, as its movepool is rather limited. Pursuit can be used to trap Levitating Ghost- or Psychic-types that try to avoid Diglett's Arena Trap, and Aerial Ace can be used to hit Grass-types.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Diglett can be easily dealt with by having a physically defensive Pokemon, particularly Bronzor, Gligar, or Phanpy. The aforementioned Pokemon are capable of taking several hits from Diglett and return with their STAB attacks. Bronzor is Diglett's best counter, since it has Levitate and takes pathetic damage from any of its other moves.</p>

<p>Substitute-using Ghost-types, like Drifloon and Gastly, are also solid counters if Diglett lacks Shadow Claw. They can set up a Substitute as Diglett attempts to Sucker Punch them, allowing them to finish off Diglett with Shadow Ball safely.</p>

<p>Grass-types like Paras and Snover can take Diglett's Earthquake and OHKO it back with their STAB Grass-type (or Ice-type in Snover's case) moves. Hidden Power Ice can hurt them, but they are not wounded too badly. However, Paras and Snover should watch out for Rock Slide.</p>

<p>Pokemon that are faster than Diglett spell trouble, because even moderately powered attacks can finish it off instantly. Examples of these are Choice Scarf Machop, Staryu, and Mankey, assuming Diglett is not Scarfed as well.</p>