[Overview]

<p>Doduo can perform very well at what it does, being the proud owner of the standard combination of moves granted by both of its types, a useful priority move, and the ability to simply stomp its way through weakened teams with whatever it happens to be running. Sadly for Doduo, its usage is hampered slightly by the presence of Taillow, who can run almost identical movesets but has greater Speed (which in Little Cup can make or break a sweeper), as well as Guts and Facade to compensate for Doduo's slightly higher Attack. Despite the competition, Doduo is undeniably an excellent Pokemon in Little Cup, and is not overshadowed by any means; Doduo's higher Attack and slightly better overall defenses, the ability to use Liechi Berry, Flail, and Roost, as well as freedom from self-inflicted status damage, gives it advantages over Taillow in many situations. Underestimate it at your own peril.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Life Orb
move 1: Brave Bird / Pluck
move 2: Return / Double-Edge
move 3: Quick Attack
move 4: Hidden Power Fighting / Hidden Power Grass
item: Life Orb
ability: Early Bird
nature: Naughty / Naive
evs: 240 Atk / 240 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Doduo boasts decent Speed and Attack, useful STAB moves, and decent coverage, allowing it to function as a fast, physical sweeper. This variant of Doduo aims to sweep, clearing up weakened teams late-game with its powerful STAB moves, while relying on priority to prevent revenge kills by faster foes. Return is the standard Normal-type STAB move, and is a good one at that: with reasonable power, perfect accuracy, and no recoil effects, you will find Doduo using it more than any of its other moves, not only because it has a great deal of neutral coverage, but also because it is Doduo's most reliable attack. Double-Edge is a more powerful but also more risky alternative to Return; it can make the difference between an OHKO and a 2HKO, but lacks Return's long-term reliability. However, it is illegal alongside Brave Bird, and as Brave Bird does not have as reliable an alternative as Double-Edge has, it is usually the more worthwhile investment. For a secondary STAB option, Brave Bird is Doduo's most powerful choice, and as mentioned previously there are few worthwhile alternatives. Pluck is one, allowing you to steal Oran Berries from walls such as Bronzor and Gligar that come in to make your life difficult. While not as powerful as Brave Bird, it can make your life much easier should you happen to catch them on the switch, not only preventing them from healing, but also healing Doduo in the process.</p>

<p>Quick Attack allows Doduo to escape the priority death trap from Pokemon such as Croagunk and Machop that may try to bait Doduo into using Brave Bird, and also allows for an assured end to weakened foes that may be carrying priority. STAB Quick Attack from Doduo can really hurt, and can allow Doduo to act as a fairly good revenge killer. Doduo shares the pain of many Normal / Flying Pokemon in that the Steel- and Rock-types that inhabit Little Cup really make its life a trial, since they resist both of its STAB moves while being naturally very defensive, and Doduo has barely anything to hit back at them with. However, given the low Special Defense of most of the Rock-types in Little Cup, Hidden Power Fighting, even off Doduo's pathetic Special Attack stat, does a lot of damage to many of them, most importantly Aron, who 4x resists both of Doduo's STAB moves. Aron is OHKOed and other Pokemon, such as Onix and offensive Rhyhorn, are 2HKOed. On the other hand, Hidden Power Grass OHKOes Onix and Rhydon, as well as almost always OHKOing Omanyte and Kabuto, though it does not do as much to Aron. Hidden Power Ice is also an option if you are worried about Gligar, OHKOing offensive variants and almost always doing the same to defensive ones.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs and nature are incredibly straightforward, with simple sweeper EVs for maximum effectiveness at its job, and a defense-lowering nature to avoid spoiling the power of Hidden Power Fighting. Naughty grants greater attacking power, but Naive grants greater Speed, which can make the difference between death and survival, though the choice is really up to personal preference. Ordinarily, 236 EVs would be sufficient to maximize both Attack and Speed on Doduo; however, due to the lowered IVs from using Hidden Power, 240 EVs are given in each stat to ensure that, whatever Hidden Power you decide to use, Doduo's Attack and Speed are always maximized.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock, despite being resisted by most of Doduo's counters, is as useful as ever to break the common Focus Sashes seen around Little Cup. Doduo is frail even without a defense-lowering nature, and taking into account Stealth Rock damage, Life Orb damage, and Brave Bird recoil, Doduo will not be surviving for long against a team that can potentially hit back. Rapid Spin support can help salvage some bulk, allowing Doduo to come in unscathed, and thus giving it more of a lifeline to hang on should it be struck by a weaker attack or require extra turns of Life Orb recoil in which to do damage. This cannot disguise the fact that Doduo is very prone to revenge killing, particularly from Pokemon such as Scarf Gastly or Scarf Cranidos, both of whom do not mind Quick Attack. You should make sure that you can deal with these threats to Doduo, as being unable to do so is often fatal to both Doduo and your team. As for what Doduo cannot take down through sheer force, Pokemon that resist its STAB moves are the main culprits, in particular those Rock- and Steel-types that do not mind Hidden Power Fighting. Bronzor is the best check around, and Doduo does not like being on the receiving end of a Hidden Power Ice or Psychic. To deal with it, you should take advantage of its sole weakness, Fire-type moves; Houndour beats Bronzor that lack Earthquake. Krabby can take any of its attacks and reply in kind with STAB Crabhammer, as well as easily taking on the Rock-types that also plague Doduo. In the case of Magnemite, Diglett can trap and easily OHKO assuming it does not use Magnet Rise on the switch.</p>

[SET]
name: 3 Attacks + Roost
move 1: Brave Bird / Pluck
move 2: Return / Double-Edge
move 3: Quick Attack
move 4: Roost
item: Life Orb
ability: Early Bird
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 236 Atk / 236 Spe
ivs: 29 HP

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Roost may seem like a waste of a moveslot on Doduo given its lack of bulk, running Roost comes with a lot of bonuses to Doduo that more than make up for the lost coverage. It is an extremely useful move in the right circumstances, as Doduo often accumulates a very large amount of residual damage thanks to Stealth Rock, Life Orb, and recoil from Brave Bird or Double-Edge. Furthermore, Roost removes Doduo's unfortunate weaknesses to Rock-, Electric-, and Ice-type moves, and provides it with a non-damaging move to avoid Sucker Punch. For the other three moves, Brave Bird and Double-Edge are very powerful and their recoil effect is negated by Roost, as previously mentioned, although since you can only use one of them as they are illegal together, Pluck and Return are still perfectly viable options.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is the standard max Attack and Speed. The choice of an Adamant or Jolly nature is entirely up to whether you feel the need for more Speed or more Attack. Lastly, if you decide to run a 29 HP IV, Doduo reaches 19 HP, which means that Life Orb will only deduct 1 HP per attack. However, this loss in HP can be critical against Bronzor that invest in Special Attack as well as for taking other neutral hits.</p>

<p>The most obvious benefit of Roost is negating the residual damage built up on Doduo. While healing with Roost wastes a turn, it allows Doduo to remain a force for much longer in the battle. While it may seem optimistic to the point of foolishness to try to heal a weakened Doduo at any point, it should be noted that Doduo's presence will often force the opponent to switch, usually to a Pokemon such as Bronzor, whom Doduo can do very little against, and thus it is often a better policy to Roost on the switch. Aside from this, Roost can allow Doduo to beat its usual counters, most notably Bronzor, who has a good chance to fail to 2HKO with Gyro Ball, Psychic, or Hidden Power Ice, allowing Doduo to outstall it with Roost and slowly wear it down over time with repeated attacks. Another great advantage gained by using Roost is the ability to evade Sucker Punch, one of the most common forms of priority. While Doduo has priority of its own, it may not always be enough to avoid a revenge kill, especially with Pokemon such as Diglett. Lastly, although by using Roost you remove Doduo's Rock, Ice, and Electric weaknesses, enabling Doduo to occasionally heal on unSTABed attacks of these types from slower Pokemon, this is a rare occurrence and the users of these moves will often have enough power to cause serious injury to the frail Doduo even without a weakness to prey on.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock support helps greatly to stop Focus Sash teams from interfering. The biggest difference between this Doduo and most others is the presence of Roost and the absence of a last coverage move. This fact makes Doduo a lot more vulnerable to Pokemon that resist its STAB moves, particularly Rock-type Pokemon such as Geodude and Onix. While these are not commonly seen, it may be wise to accompany Doduo with something that has little trouble against them, such as Staryu or Machop, both of whom can OHKO most Rock-types with their STAB moves.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Doduo can use Choice items fairly well, something Taillow cannot do, but more often than not getting locked into a Normal-type move is asking for disaster. As previously mentioned, Doduo has little in the way of alternative moves. Drill Peck is an option if you dislike Brave Bird’s recoil and Pluck’s low Base Power, but is quite average compared to them. Steel Wing allows Doduo to hit Rock-types, but its low power coupled with low damage output against common Rock-types means Doduo is usually better off using Hidden Power. Doduo also has Endeavor, which can be used alongside Quick Attack and Focus Sash for a gimmick combination. Lastly, Pursuit can be used to revenge kill Choice-locked Ghosts.</p>

<p>All you really need to do for Doduo is max out its Attack and Speed, since both stats max out at 236 EVs, and none of its other stats gain a point with the leftover 36 EVs. If you are using Hidden Power Fighting, Doduo loses a point in Speed, so a Naive nature should be used to make up for it. Likewise, if you are using Hidden Power Grass, Doduo loses a point in Attack, so you may want to use a Naughty nature to retain its original Attack. A 29 HP IV allows Doduo to reach 19 HP, letting Doduo take minimum damage from Life Orb, though it does interfere with Hidden Power slightly. If you are using a Substitute + Flail set, 76 EVs in HP gives Doduo a HP stat of 21, allowing it to create four Substitutes with 1 HP remaining.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Far and away the best counters are Steel-types, which resist both of Doduo's STAB moves and usually have naturally high Defense. Bronzor comes to mind as a premier choice, especially considering that it is not bothered by Hidden Power Fighting. Beldum should also be noted as a check, if only for sake of completeness. Magnemite, too, can survive a Hidden Power and OHKO with STAB Thunderbolt. Aron and Shieldon take practically nothing from Doduo's STAB attacks and have their own STAB Rock-type attacks to kill Doduo with, but must be wary of Hidden Power Fighting, as it will OHKO both the majority of the time. Rock-types are next on the list, with naturally great Defense and super effective STAB, though they usually have less than impressive Special Defense stats and must watch out for Hidden Power. Faster Ghosts can come in on Return or Quick Attack and hit Doduo with Thunderbolt, though they need to watch out for Brave Bird or Pluck on the switch. Lastly, Doduo is quite frail and easily revenge killed, and even with Quick Attack taken for granted there are a number of Pokemon faster than it that easily revenge kill it, such as Elekid, Staryu, and Abra. Most Choice Scarf users also outrun it, and priority users such as Houndour and Machop can all come in on a weakened Doduo and revenge kill after it has made a kill, though they must watch out for Quick Attack.</p>