[Overview]

<p>In a metagame flooded with Water-types of infinite diversity, Kabuto stands out as one of the most notable. It is, simply put, a great sweeper with a solid Attack stat, reliable STAB moves, and an ability that remedies its otherwise horrible Speed stat; as such, Kabuto is one of the premier forces to watch out for in Little Cup. Many of the strongest physical walls in the metagame do not dare to approach it under the rain, and it can bypass its embarrassing weakness to priority with its own Aqua Jet. Although it has a lot of common weaknesses, its typing gives it a good offensive combination and a nice set of resistances. All in all, Kabuto is a Pokemon to watch out for, whatever the weather might be.</p>

[SET]
name: Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Aqua Jet
move 3: Rock Slide / Waterfall
move 4: Rapid Spin / Protect / Earth Power
item: Focus Sash
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Naughty / Adamant
EVs: 196 Atk / 76 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Kabuto's ability to reliably set up Stealth Rock in combination with its offensive prowess means that it is one of the most popular support leads available. One of Kabuto's selling points as a lead is its resistance to Fake Out and its good Defense stat, making it a reliable answer to the common Meowth leads. Another advantage to Kabuto is its ability to beat a good number of the other popular leads one-on-one, leads such as Onix, Phanpy, and Houndour, thanks to its STAB moves.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is Kabuto's most useful support move, as already mentioned. Aqua Jet rectifies Kabuto's low Speed stat, and is incredibly useful to finish off other Focus Sash leads, as well as for getting the jump on weakened, faster Pokemon later in the game. Rock Slide is Kabuto's primary STAB option and takes care of Paras and Mantyke. For the last slot, Rapid Spin makes several strategies plausible; for example, against opposing Stealth Rock leads, using Rapid Spin while they are on low health means KOing them and removing Stealth Rock in one stroke. Protect can be useful for scouting purposes as well as blocking Fake Out from leads such as Meowth, allowing Kabuto to conserve its Focus Sash. Lastly, Earth Power is useful for coverage, not only for Croagunk but also for Chinchou and other Electric-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Waterfall is first among your other options, giving Kabuto a reliable Water-type attack to use against its foes, getting a stronger hit on Machop in exchange for the extra coverage of Rock Slide. Focus Sash is the advised item to compensate for the variety of weaknesses that Kabuto has, and also ensures that Kabuto will not die to Earthquake from leads that it otherwise beats. The EVs maximize Kabuto's Attack and Speed to allow maximum offensive prowess, hitting the magic 15 Speed stat and retaining a high Attack stat, while 76 Special Attack EVs are used to facilitate an OHKO on Croagunk with Earth Power, and also to boost the power of Surf. If you decide to run Rapid Spin over Earth Power, you can switch the Special Attack EVs to 36 HP and 36 Defense to grant an extra point in both stats.</p>

<p>As a lead, Kabuto's Rock- and Water-type STABs provide excellent coverage, hitting Onix, Diglett, Phanpy, Anorith, Hippopotas, Gligar, Houndour, Snover, Aron, and Drifloon for super effective damage; possesses neutral coverage on leads such as Voltorb and Meowth as well. Kabuto does, however, have trouble with leads such as Oran Berry Bronzor, who has the Defense to take four Waterfalls from Kabuto. A Fire-type such as Houndour makes a good partner in this situation, as it can destroy Bronzor with its STAB Fire-type moves (but must watch out for Earthquake). Another problem lead is Machop, who can only be 3HKOed by Waterfall if it holds an Oran Berry, while Machop can simply use DynamicPunch followed by Bullet Punch to pick Kabuto off. Thus, a Slowpoke can be a useful teammate, resisting DynamicPunch and Bullet Punch and being immune to confusion, as well as being able to eliminate Machop with STAB Zen Headbutt. Gastly works similarly but has to watch out for Bullet Punch.</p>

[SET]
name: Rain Dance Mixed Attacker
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Rock Slide
move 3: Earth Power / Aerial Ace
move 4: Aqua Jet / Rain Dance
item: Life Orb / Oran Berry
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Naughty / Adamant
EVs: 196 Atk / 156 SpA / 156 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Kabuto stands out as one of the best Swift Swim abusers in Little Cup, thanks to its decent Attack, defensive stats, and the ability to power through many of Little Cup's common walls with its rain-boosted Waterfalls. Since Buizel's extra Speed is no longer so great an advantage, Kabuto is perhaps the most powerful physical Swift Swim sweeper available.</p>

<p>Waterfall is Kabuto's main STAB move, and as its power is boosted by the rain, there are not many Pokemon that can survive it. Rock Slide is a reliable secondary STAB move, hitting Paras, Snover, and especially Mantyke super effectively. Both Rock Slide and Waterfall also have useful flinch potential. Earth Power is used mainly for its ability to OHKO Croagunk with the given EV spread, who walls both of Kabuto's STAB moves, but also to 2HKO dangerous Pokemon such as Chinchou and Tentacool. Aerial Ace also deals with Croagunk, but in addition deals good damage to Grass-types such as Shroomish and Oddish. The last slot really depends on how you intend to use Kabuto. Aqua Jet works as an insurance against priority-wielders, though sadly it is ineffective against Croagunk. If you intend to use this Kabuto as a solo sweeper, however, Kabuto can set up Rain Dance for itself, though be aware that the absence of Damp Rock means that your own Rain Dance will not last as long as one conjured up by a specialized Bronzor.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb grants Kabuto some extra power at the cost of losing HP every turn. Oran Berry aids defensively and can allow Kabuto an extra chance at survival, as well as being a great help if you want Kabuto to set up its own Rain Dance. Another Berry that could be of use to you is Chople Berry, which allows Kabuto to survive Croagunk's Vacuum Wave once, effectively turning Kabuto into a lure for Croagunk in addition to its usual sweeping role, which can give another Swift Swim sweeper free rein once Croagunk is gone. However, this does lower Kabuto's offensive power by a good amount due to the absence of Life Orb, so Aerial Ace is recommended as the OHKO on Croagunk with Earth Power is no longer guaranteed.</p>

<p>The EVs given generate the maximum possible Attack while also giving enough Special Attack to 2HKO Chinchou through Oran Berry with Earth Power. The rest is piled into Speed, allowing Kabuto to reach a stat of 28, sufficient to beat Timid Choice Scarf Gastly. If you do not intend to run Earth Power or any other special attacks, you can drop all the Special Attack EVs and run an EV spread of 36 HP / 196 Atk / 36 Def / 236 Spe, reaching the magic 30 Speed stat while gaining one extra point in Defense and HP. You can now also run an Adamant nature since Kabuto has no need for its Special Attack stat.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is a great help to this Kabuto, not only for the added residual damage but also for the ability to nullify opposing Focus Sash users. This means that Sash Diglett cannot simply come in and Earthquake Kabuto to death. In terms of resistances, Kabuto does not like bulky Water-types much, as they can wall its Water-type attacks with ease, and usually KO with their own STAB attacks. To deal with them, something with a strong Grass- or Electric-type attack is usually the best choice, as well as Pokemon with resistance or indifference to Water attacks, such as Chinchou, Paras, or Starmie. Revenge killing is the other common way of removing Kabuto, most commonly by using Croagunk, who can switch in on Rock Slide or Waterfall and OHKO with STAB Vacuum Wave. Focus Sash Diglett can remove Croagunk from the game before it can ruin Kabuto's sweep, assuming it has not used any boosting moves yet, while Gligar and Gastly can usually switch in and neuter it with little trouble. If Kabuto does not carry Rain Dance, you will require another Pokemon to set it up: Meowth and Voltorb are examples of extremely fast Pokemon that can set up Rain Dance before being struck down; Bronzor is more bulky and can use it multiple times.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Kabuto shares a bunch of otherwise useful special moves with its special counterpart, Omanyte, such as Surf, Ice Beam, and AncientPower, but the two special STAB moves have less power against nearly all opponents than their physical counterparts Waterfall and Rock Slide, and Ice Beam has fairly redundant coverage. Other than this, Rock Polish provides the same Speed boost as Swift Swim, although it will only last for as long as Kabuto remains in play. Kabuto gets Flail and has a high enough Attack stat to use it with, though a neutral STAB Waterfall in the rain hits nearly as hard. Return gets more neutral coverage, but does not hit any Pokemon harder in particular. Kabuto reaches the magic 15 Speed stat, which means that when equipped with a Choice Scarf it can outrun all unboosted Pokemon in Little Cup as well as the plethora of 14 Speed Scarf Pokemon in the same role. Knock Off allows Kabuto to remove its opponent's precious Oran Berries and Choice Scarfs, and can be of use on the lead set. Lastly, Screech and Metal Sound are two moves that can be useful in the absence of Swords Dance and Nasty Plot, though the effects leave the field with the opponent.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Finding a true counter to the Swift Swim set, or something that can take even one Waterfall or Rock Slide in its stride, is a difficult feat indeed. The sheer power harnessed by Kabuto is boosted by the fact that many of the Pokemon with the highest Defense in Little Cup, namely Gligar, Aron, Shieldon, Rhyhorn, Geodude, Onix, and Hippopotas, are all weak to its STAB attacks. Psyduck is pretty much far and away the best check, since its Cloud Nine ability negates Kabuto's Swift Swim and also removes the boost to its Water-type attacks, allowing Psyduck to dispatch it with a STAB Surf or Hidden Power Electric. Croagunk, too, can switch in on Rock Slide or any of its Water moves and OHKO with Vacuum Wave, though it must watch out for Aerial Ace or Earth Power from Chople Berry Kabuto. Wooper has the same resistance to Rock and immunity to Water as Croagunk, but it is not weak to Aerial Ace or Earth Power and can attack back with its STAB Water-type moves. Oran Berry Chinchou cannot be 2HKOed by any set without Earth Power, while bulkier Grass-types can potentially survive a Rock Slide to OHKO using their STAB moves with ease. Snover can remove Kabuto's rain with Snow Warning and destroy it with its STAB Grass moves, but if it switches into Rock Slide it is doomed. Lastly, a faster Mantyke can use its own Swift Swim to outrun Kabuto, but this means forfeiting its valuable Water Absorb ability, and it can be taken out by Kabuto's Rock Slide.</p>