[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Psyduck looks vastly inferior to the majority of usable Water-type Pokemon. Psyduck, however, has two things working for it that sets it apart: access to Cross Chop and its ability, Cloud Nine. Cross Chop allows Psyduck to threaten Snover, who walls most other Water-types easily. Cloud Nine, however, is the main reason that Psyduck is a viable option in Little Cup play. With Cloud Nine, Psyduck is able to stop weather-based teams cold. Furthermore, its respectable base 65 Special Attack and base 52 Attack stat allows Psyduck to retain general utility if the opposing team does not have a weather abuser.</p>

[SET]
name: Weather Counter
move 1: Hydro Pump
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Cross Chop
move 4: Hidden Power Grass / Hidden Power Electric
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Naive
ability: Cloud Nine
evs: 24 Atk / 240 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Psyduck's best chance of success in the Little Cup metagame is obtained by using a Choice Scarf. With a Choice Scarf and a Naive nature, Psyduck reaches a very good 24 Speed, which outspeeds all non-Choice Scarf users in addition to threats such as Dratini and Bagon after a Dragon Dance. Psyduck's deep movepool gives it superior type coverage and makes it a good Choice Scarf user. Additionally, Choice Scarf gives Psyduck great utility outside of the unique niche of being an end-all counter to weather-based teams.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Hydro Pump is Psyduck's most powerful STAB move and allows Psyduck to hit as hard as possible. Surf can be used if you're afraid of Hydro Pump's shaky accuracy, but then Psyduck loses the ability to 2HKO Lileep. Ice Beam OHKOes Gligar, Cacnea, and Gible, all of whom lose their Sand Veil evasion boost because of Cloud Nine. Cross Chop will 2HKO Snover through its Oran Berry while providing general utility against Aron and Munchlax late game. Hidden Power Grass is the first option on this set since it gives Psyduck the ability to OHKO Kabuto and Omanyte, as well as hitting Chinchou for good damage. On the other hand, Hidden Power Electric OHKOes Mantyke 100% of the time with Stealth Rock up. Psychic is a decent option for Psyduck, as it allows it to OHKO Croagunk, a staple on Rain Dance teams, easily. Additionally, Hypnosis can be used as a fast, counter-all move. The shaky accuracy, however, makes it a second-rate option, especially with the already shaky Hydro Pump and Cross Chop as necessary moves.</p>

<p>Naive is the nature of choice because it allows Psyduck to be as fast as possible while also not lowering either of its attacking stats. The EVs are fairly straightforward. Psyduck needs its Special Attack maximized to score many of the OHKOs and 2HKOs that it needs to be effective, and running maximum Speed on Psyduck allows it to tie with threats such as Aron after a Rock Polish and Choice Scarf Mankey. The remaining EVs give Psyduck an extra point in Attack that boosts the power of Cross Chop.</p>

<p>Obviously, Pokemon that benefit from the removal of weather starters work well alongside Psyduck. Gligar fears rain abusers and hail abusers alike, and it can switch in easily on Electric-type attacks aimed at Psyduck. Gligar is a magnet for Water- and Ice-type attacks as well, which Psyduck can switch in on easily. Dratini appreciates Psyduck's presence as well, since it likes to start attacking after a single Dragon Dance. Psyduck helps to remove any Chlorophyll and Swift Swim sweepers that trouble Dratini, such as Bellsprout or Mantyke. Generally, if a Pokemon hates any common weather-starters, they will appreciate Psyduck's help. Psyduck can also plug a hole on teams that lack a reliable revenge killer, as it has a respectable 24 Speed with its Choice Scarf and a variety of attacks to cover most types of Pokemon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Yawn can be used somewhat effectively on Psyduck, as it forces your opponent to make a decision between either switching out or KOing Psyduck at the expense of being put to sleep. Running Yawn leaves Psyduck vulnerable to Pokemon that it wants to beat consistently, however. Additionally, Encore can be used to surprise an opponent trying to set up on Psyduck, though it forces you to switch Psyduck out immediately. Psyduck can attempt to run a Life Orb set, but in general you're better off using a Pokemon with a higher attacking stat.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Psyduck may not look like it, but it can be a hard Pokemon to beat. Croagunk is the closest thing to a Psyduck counter with its immunity to Psyduck's STAB attack and resistance to Cross Chop and Hidden Power Grass. Croagunk can use a combination of Fake Out and either Vacuum Wave or Sucker Punch to whittle Psyduck's health down. Munchlax checks Psyduck pretty well, especially if Psyduck does not have Cross Chop. Even with Cross Chop, Munchlax is only 3HKOed, which allows it to switch into Psyduck without fear at least once. Chinchou and Mantyke counter Psyduck well depending on the Hidden Power that Psyduck knows; Chinchou will wall Hidden Power Electric variants all day long, while Mantyke shrugs aside attacks from Hidden Power Grass variants. Bronzor is bulky enough to switch into Psyduck, but it can't do much in return except for setting up screens.</p>