[Overview]

<p>Sentret is not seen often because of very poor stats across the board. However, Sentret does have a very large movepool, which somewhat makes up for its terrible stats. Sentret works best as a Trick Room sweeper; unfortunately, Sentret is outclassed by Whismur and Munchlax as a Trick Room sweeper due to their higher offensive stats. What sets Sentret apart is a powerful priority attack in Sucker Punch, allowing it to pick off weakened Pokemon even when Trick Room isn't in effect.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Mixed Attacker
move 1: Return / Brick Break
move 2: Sucker Punch / U-turn
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Thunderbolt
item: Life Orb
ability: Keen Eye
nature: Quiet / Brave
evs: 228 Atk / 4 Def / 236 SpA
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Sentret has a terrible Speed stat, but under Trick Room, it can be one of the fastest Pokemon in Little Cup. Return is a very strong STAB move and is the move Sentret will be using most often. Brick Break can also be used to hurt Steel-type Pokemon, and offers more coverage. Sucker Punch is a very powerful move, and priority is always useful in a fast-paced metagame like Little Cup. It also acts as insurance when Trick Room isn't in effect. U-turn can also be used in place of Sucker Punch to scout for counters, and allows Sentret to escape from danger. A combination of Ice Beam and Thunderbolt provides very good coverage, forming the BoltBeam combination which hits all Pokemon in Little Cup at least neutrally, except for Magnemite.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Speed-reducing nature and 0 Speed IVs bring Sentret to a low 7 Speed stat, allowing it to outrun almost every single Pokemon in Trick Room. Bronzor completely walls this set, so a teammate who can effectively deal with Bronzor is helpful; Houndour and Magnemite do the job well. The former can set up a Substitute before hitting Bronzor hard with Fire Blast, while the latter can trap Bronzor with Magnet Pull and deal a lot of damage with Thunderbolt. While it has a large movepool, Sentret's offensive stats are still fairly poor, meaning unless it is hitting something frail for super effective damage, it will not deal a lot of damage. Gligar is helpful as it deals with Croagunk, who would otherwise defeat Sentret with a combination of Fake Out and Vacuum Wave. If needed, Gligar can even use U-turn to scout the opponent's team. However, most (if not all) teammates should be carrying a Speed-reducing nature along with 0 Speed IVs because Trick Room may be in effect. Bronzor is a good candidate for setting up Trick Room since it is also able to lay down Stealth Rock, making Sentret's job of damaging the opponent's Pokemon easier. Snubbull may seem to outclass this set, having Intimidate, a higher Attack stat, and pefect coverage, but what sets Sentret apart is a powerful priority move in Sucker Punch and the ability to scout the opponent's team with U-turn.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Sentret has Flamethrower and Fire Punch, which allow it to hit Bronzor harder than with any of its other moves. Super Fang can be used to hurt opposing Pokemon, bringing them down to half of their HP. However, many Pokemon carry Oran Berry, so they'll recover most, if not all, of that HP immediately. Quick Attack can be used as a weaker priority move that is guaranteed to hit. Lastly, U-turn can be used to scout the opponent's switch-in, but is not recommended due to Sentret's poor Speed. Aqua Tail is a good option to hurt bulky Pokemon such as Onix, while providing good coverage. Sentret can also use Trick with an Iron Ball to outspeed counters and render them useless. Assist is also an option, making Sentret's moves harder to predict.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>When not under Trick Room, almost every Pokemon can outspeed Sentret. Machop can use DynamicPunch, Mankey can use Close Combat or U-turn, and Croagunk can use Fake Out and Vacuum Wave to ensure Sentret's demise. When under Trick Room, Bronzor is no doubt the best counter, walling Sentret completely unless it carries a Fire attack and sometimes even underspeeding it. Under Trick Room, Munchlax can switch in on Thunderbolt or Ice Beam and proceed to outspeed and OHKO Sentret with Return. Magnemite and Aron are also decent counters, not getting hurt by any attack except for Brick Break (which is not common on Sentret).</p>