[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Tentacool's stats suggest that it would be a premier special wall in Little Cup. Unfortunately, its weaknesses to Thunderbolt and Earth Power make that generalization not so. Still, Tentacool is one of the quickest users of Rapid Spin in LC, and it has access to Toxic Spikes. Its offensive movepool is no joke either, with access to moves such as Hydro Pump, Ice Beam, and Sludge Bomb. However, it is still underappreciated in Little Cup, as most teams focus on hyper offense, leaving supporting Tentacool to the wolves. But, if taking it slow and drawing out the battle is your cup of tea, definitely consider Tentacool for a team slot.</p>

[SET]
name: Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Toxic Spikes
move 3: Surf
move 4: Sludge Bomb / Hidden Power Ground
item: Oran Berry
ability: Clear Body
nature: Bold
evs: 196 HP / 76 Def / 36 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Tentacool is one of the fastest users of Rapid Spin, and it has a nice defensive typing that leaves it with only three weaknesses. It is also one of the bulkiest Rapid Spinners in Little Cup, and can be considered to be Pineco's special counterpart. Tentacool also gets Toxic Spikes, and with its Speed and bulk, will most likely be able to get two layers down before it gets KOed. Surf is a powerful and reliable STAB attack that gets fair neutral coverage and does a decent amount of damage, even without maximum investment. The last move is very situational, and should be chosen by what the rest of the team would most appreciate. Sludge Bomb gives Tentacool a decent secondary STAB attack, which pairs well coverage-wise with Surf. However, Hidden Power Ground smacks Croagunk, a Pokemon that would easily wall this setfor super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Sweepers that enjoy having Stealth Rock removed do well alongside Tentacool. Houndour loves not losing HP on the switch, and Tentacool can take a Fighting-type attack or two for Houndour. Since Croagunk beats this set unless Hidden Power Ground is being run, Bronzor is a good teammate. Not only can Bronzor beat Croagunk without breaking a sweat, but it also can set up Stealth Rock. Gligar is one of the best teammates to pair with Tentacool, as it is immune to two of Tentacool's weaknesses (Electric and Ground). Spinblockers are also good teammates so Toxic Spikes can stay on the field for as long as possible. Duskull is a good candidate for the role and can spread burn via Will-O-Wisp to those immune to Toxic Spikes. Knock Off is another option that can remove an important item (like Munchlax's Oran Berry) and reduce the potency of those Pokemon. The Bold nature and EVs attempt to remedy Tentacool's lousy Defense. There is no investment in Tentacool's Special Defense since it's already naturally high.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Hydro Pump / Surf
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Sludge Bomb
move 4: Hidden Power Electric / Hidden Power Ground
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Clear Body
nature: Timid
evs: 36 HP / 76 Def / 200 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Tentacool's above average Speed and passable Special Attack allow it to run a Scarf set efficiently, though it might seem outclassed by stronger Water-types, namely Staryu and Chinchou. Hydro Pump is Tentacool's primary option for a STAB attack, but Surf can be used if accuracy is an issue. Ice Beam hits Dragon-types and most Flying-types for super effective damage. Sludge Bomb hits most Grass-types harder than Ice Beam, and also provides Tentacool with a secondary STAB move. In the last slot, Hidden Power Electric is the better option for BoltBeam coverage alongside Ice Beam, but Hidden Power Ground is a viable alternative to get the jump on Croagunk. It should be noted, however, that without Hidden Power Electric, Tentacool has absolutely no way of beating Mantyke. With a Choice Scarf Timid nature, and the EVs provided, Tentacool hits 25 Speed, easily beating many slower threats in the metagame. Special Attack is also maximized, with the remaining EVs adding a point to HP and Defense.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>This Tentacool absolutely loves having Munchlax removed before attempting a sweep. Machop and Mankey are great, but they both share a weakness (albeit an uncommon one) to Psychic-type attacks. Wynaut can trap and KO Munchlax via Shadow Tag, and Diglett can do the same with Arena Trap. Koffing is immune to Ground-type attacks, and can spread burn with Will-O-Wisp. Wallbreakers like Houndour can rip holes in the opposing team for Tentacool to finish off. Bronzor and Gligar help beat Croagunk if Hidden Power Electric is being run, and Croagunk can't do much damage to either. Munchlax beats Mantyke if Tentacool decides to go with Hidden Power Ground.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Tentacool can also run a physical Choice Scarf set, but it gets less super effective coverage than the special set does. Tentacool also gets Swords Dance, but its weaknesses to Electric and Ground, two of the most common attacking types in LC, prevent it from being viable. Choice Scarfers would also rain on Swords Dance Tentacool's parade. Tentacool gets Screech, but it's nothing more than an inferior Swords Dance. Tentacool also has Mirror Coat, but it is usually KOed by super effective attacks and cannot trap other Pokemon like Wynaut can outside of using Wrap. Icy Wind can be used as a potential support move, but other support moves are better in most cases. Finally, Tentacool has Confuse Ray, but it is illegal in tandem with Rapid Spin.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Overall, Munchlax is the best check to Tentacool since it takes minimal damage from all of Tentacool's attack and can prey on Tentacool's weaker Defense. Gastly is immune to Rapid Spin and Hidden Power Ground, resists Sludge Bomb, and can put Tentacool to sleep with Hypnosis or beat Tentacool outright with Thunderbolt. That being said, Ghost-types in general fare well against Tentacool, since they all render it useless by blocking Rapid Spin. Bronzor is immune to Sludge Bomb and threatens Tentacool with Psychic and Earthquake - two potent super effective attacks. Finally, the Hidden Power decision is most likely one of the biggest factors when determining a counter to Tentacool - if it does not have Hidden Power Electric, Mantyke can easily set up on Tentacool, but it Tentacool doesn't have Hidden Power Ground, Croagunk will beat Tentacool easily.</p>