[Overview]

<p>Weedle boasts the prestigious "Smallest Movepool in all of Little Cup" award, trumping even Caterpie, Burmy, and the fearsome Magikarp with its minuteness. Utilizing its amazingly concise movepool, Weedle can act as an extreme nuisance to the other team, eating all Oran Berries in its path, poisoning unsuspecting victims who switch in thinking they can forge through a powerful Poison Sting, and crippling opposing sweepers with a tactical String Shot. Furthermore, Weedle has the highest Attack stat out of all the aforementioned limited-movepool behemoths, making it even more of a superior choice when considering one of the four for your team. However, it's not all rainbows and butterflies for Weedle (well, rainbows and bees I guess). Weedle is faced with fearsome competition, having to differentiate itself from hailed sweepers like Gligar, who is also able to learn Poison Sting, making it quite the rival for a team slot. When considering putting Weedle on your team, you must be sure to utilize its advantages over other Pokemon, mainly String Shot, Bug Bite, and Poison Sting. Although many other Pokemon learn these moves, I guarantee you that you will more than likely only see this potent combination on Weedle as they are the most effective moves he has.</p>

[SET]
name: Soon to be Kakuna
move 1: Bug Bite
move 2: Poison Sting
move 3: String Shot
item: Life Orb / Oran Berry / Choice Band
nature: Adamant
evs: 196 HP / 236 Atk / 36 Def / 36 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the only set Weedle can run, because, well, this is its entire movepool. But don't fret! Weedle doesn't even need four moves, as it is able to pose an extremely moderate threat with this holy trinity of moves alone. Bug Bite is Weedle's strongest STAB attack, and will hurt most Pokemon more than any of its other attacks. Not even Pokemon that resist Bug Bite can switch in safely for fear of losing their precious Oran Berry. The fact that Weedle is fairly uncommon also helps, since opposing walls that switch in won't be aware of the potential loss of their Berry. It should be noted that Bug Bite can 6HKO Aron (5HKO with Choice Band), an impressive feat. Poison Sting is for secondary STAB, but is considerably weaker than Bug Bite. However there is one reason and one reason alone that warrants its use and that is poison. Just watch as your opponent winces in rage and cries in fear when their precious Weedle check becomes crippled with the bane that is regular poison, causing them to lose a full 12.5% of their health every single turn. Finally, String Shot allows Weedle to outspeed all Pokemon below 17 Speed after a single String Shot, allowing it to strike first or set up an essential sweep for a teammate (unless the opponent switches out of course).</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb allows Weedle to deal heavy damage to even foes that resist its attacks, dealing a solid 12% to defensive Gligar with Bug Bite; however Oran Berry is an option to prolong Weedle's rampage. Choice Band boosts Weedle's Attack, allowing it to really put the hurt on opponents. However, locking itself into String Shot is not a good idea. Adamant nature allows Weedle to destroy its enemies, while lowering its Special Attack which is merely a pittance in comparison to boosting Weedle's titanic base 35 Attack stat. The EV spread maximizes Weedle's HP and Attack, while increasing its Defense and Speed by one point. With the extra point in Speed, Weedle hits 12 Speed, allowing it to blaze past even more Pokemon before and after a String Shot.</p>

<p>Weedle appreciates the company of Rapid Spinners that can get rid of entry hazards, which are hazardous to Weedle due to its vulnerability to Stealth Rock and Spikes. A good Rapid Spinning slave that Weedle can abuse is Sandshrew, who can Rapid Spin away any entry hazards, while also being able to set up its own in the form of Stealth Rock, which can also benefit Weedle. Sandshrew can also learn the fearsome Poison Sting, which can assist Weedle in spreading deadly regular poison throughout the opponent's team, while getting rid of Poison and Steel-type adversaries with powerful Earthquakes or Digs. Wynaut is arguably the best teammate, being able to Encore a move that Weedle resists, allowing Weedle to come in without being 2HKOed and start its assault. Wynaut can also eliminate the select Pokemon that Weedle has trouble with by using Counter or Mirror Coat.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>In terms of moves, Weedle has none, due to it only having three moves in its entire arsenal. Weedle can be used in a Trick Room team with the Speed EVs moved to Special Defense with a Brave nature, although it isn't recommended as it interferes with the String Shot strategy. Weedle can also run a Choice Band set consisting solely of Poison Sting and Bug Bite, but it generally enjoys the freedom of switching moves.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>There are very few Pokemon in the entire metagame that can boast being the perfect Weedle counter due to the side effects of Weedle's moves. Although almost every Pokemon in the metagame has the potential to do well against Weedle, they must be wary of losing their Berry, becoming crippled with poison, or being afflicted by the Speed-lowering effect of String Shot. Although Weedle boasts excellent defensive and offensive stats, it still has trouble dealing with Pokemon like Combee, who are simultaneously defensive bastions and offensive powerhouses in their own right; be careful, as they have the potential to brave through Weedle's destruction if they lack a consumable item or are immune to poison. A good example of such a fiendish adversary is Gligar, who resists both of Weedle's STAB attacks, outspeeds Weedle even after a String Shot, and has decent offensive stats to eliminate Weedle. Life Orb variants certainly don't mind Weedle's Bug Bite, but they still despise the extra passive poison damage. Fire-type Pokemon also do well against Weedle's onslaught, being able to switch in on a Bug Bite and OHKO Weedle with a STAB move; examples include Ponyta and Growlithe, who can defeat Weedle with Flare Blitz. Bronzor is the ultimate bane of Weedle's existence, being immune to poison and having access to Recycle, which can stop a Weedle sweep cold.</p>