[Overview]

<p>Wynaut is one of the most unique Pokemon in the Little Cup metagame. With Shadow Tag, Encore, Counter, and Mirror Coat at its disposal, Wynaut can become a very dangerous threat, especially to Pokemon holding a Choice Scarf or those who are slower than Wynaut, such as Bronzor. Shadow Tag and Encore in particular are Wynaut's most dangerous tools. With Shadow Tag keeping the opponent from switching, and Encore forcing them to use the same attack over and over, Wynaut can do one of many things. If the opponent uses a weak attack, Wynaut can either switch to a powerful Pokemon with a stat boosting move, or just simply Counter or Mirror Coat the Pokemon to death without any prediction. With the proper sweepers by its side, Wynaut can turn the tide of a battle with one turn. Why not use Wynaut on your team?</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Encore
move 2: Counter
move 3: Mirror Coat
move 4: Tickle / Safeguard / Destiny Bond
item: Oran Berry
nature: Impish
evs: 76 HP / 132 Def / 212 SpD / 12 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Wynaut specializes in revenge killing Choice Scarf Pokemon and getting your Pokemon a free turn of set up. With its ability, decent defensive stats, and the CounterCoat combo, Wynaut is almost guaranteed to KO a Choice Scarf Pokemon using a resisted or neutral attack. Additionally, if a Pokemon is using a weak attack or stat boosting move, Wynaut can Encore it and switch to a teammate to get a free turn of set up.</p>

<p>Wynaut is one of the strangest yet most effective support Pokemon in Little Cup, due to its ability to trap almost any Pokemon with Shadow Tag. Using this set is very simple: First, you must send Wynaut in on an attack that it easily survives, or a non-damaging move such as Stealth Rock or a status move. You then use Encore on that move and proceed to do one of two things. Firstly, it can abuse Counter or Mirror Coat by simply using the correct attack to smack your opponent back for double the damage. This makes Wynaut a great revenge killer, and an excellent answer to dispose of Choice Scarf users; however, Wynaut's true strength comes in its second option. With the right move Encored, a Pokemon on Wynaut's team can potentially gain a free opportunity to set up. For example, if Wynaut Encores a Dragon Dance from Dratini, Wynaut can simply switch to a setup sweeper and attempt to wreak havoc. If it happens to Encore a move like Waterfall, a Pokemon such as Mantyke could come in and set up an Agility without taking any damage, and then proceed to sweep. Tickle is an excellent option in the last slot if you carry a Pursuit user on your team to take out specific threats, such as Bronzor. It also helps your other Pokemon take attacks while trying to set up. Safeguard or Destiny Bond are both good options in the last slot as well, depending if you would rather be able to be immune to the uncommon status effects, or attempt to take out the opposing Pokemon as they try to finish Wynaut off. Using Destiny Bond when you have low HP will start a mind game, allowing Wynaut to possibly Encore a non-damaging attack because your opponent may not want to KO their own Pokemon, but with Wynaut's pitiful Speed, this is not always going to happen.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Wynaut is also excellent at trapping and killing Choice Scarf users like mentioned above, especially the ever common Fighting-type variants. Since most Choice Scarf users do not have the ability to KO Wynaut, and since it doesn't have to take the turn to Encore, Wynaut can simply use Counter or Mirror Coat and KO that Pokemon with ease.</p>

<p>Wynaut needs to maximize its defensive capabilities, and can't use any attacks that rely on Attack or Special Attack, so bulky EVs are pretty much the only option. Before maximizing Wynaut's bulk, 12 EVs are put into Speed so that Wynaut can come in on Bronzor and use Encore before Bronzor can switch attacks. Wynaut gets 27 HP with 76 EVs and will obtain a total of 14 in both defenses after putting 212 EVs in Special Defense and 132 EVs in Defense with an Impish nature.</p>

<p>First and foremost, Wynaut needs to be paired with a strong set of setup sweepers to take advantage of Encore. These Pokemon need to have pretty good defensive synergy as well, because it might be hard to set up if Wynaut Encores an attack like Earthquake and you have no Ground-type resist or immunity. This means Pokemon like Gligar and Aron work quite well together with Wynaut, as Gligar resists the Fighting-type attacks and is immune to the Ground-type attacks that would OHKO Aron. Similarly, Aron resists Ice-type attacks which Gligar wouldn't be able to set up on. Like Gligar, Dratini would work well with anything that resists Ice-type attacks, because it has such a high damage output after a single turn of setting up Dragon Dance. With Tickle, Wynaut works great with Pokemon such as Taillow and Zigzagoon who need Bronzor removed. For example, if you send Wynaut in on something like Bronzor using Stealth Rock, you can Encore it and start using Tickle. After Bronzor is at -6 Defense, you wait until the Encore runs out and use Encore again. Then you switch to a Pokemon such as Stunky or Houndour to Pursuit Bronzor and KO it. This leaves your opponent open for a Taillow or Zigzagoon sweep.</p>

<p>Wynaut greatly appreciates healing in the form of Wish support. Wish support gives Wynaut the ability to take more hits, and thus KO more Pokemon with Counter and Mirror Coat. This makes Lickitung a great teammate for Wynaut, as not only does it carry Wish, it also is immune to Ghost-type attacks and lures in Fighting-type attacks for Wynaut to switch into.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Wynaut really doesn't have many options with a whopping eight moves. However, Wynaut can run a decent Choice Scarf set. With maximum Speed, Wynaut reaches 19 Speed, which outpaces a good portion of Little Cup and can use Encore before many Pokemon can switch moves. Choice Scarf Wynaut with Encore specifically helps against Pokemon such as Houndour who are using Sucker Punch or medium-paced Pokemon using Protect. Destiny Bond is also neat with 19 Speed. However, 19 Speed just isn't enough for something locked into an attack, especially when its useful attacks can only be used eight times.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Wynaut doesn't really have "counters", per se. It has Pokemon who can OHKO it via revenge kills, which are the closest things to counters that Wynaut has. Drifloon, Houndour, Gastly, and possibly Stunky can come in on Wynaut and OHKO it with their STAB moves. Houndour works especially well as it is immune to Mirror Coat, so even if Dark Pulse doesn't KO, Houndour is safe from harm.</p>

<p>Mankey with U-turn makes a great lure if you use it with something like Stunky or Houndour with Pursuit as well. Diglett with Substitute makes a decent revenge killer as well (via Arena Trap). Diglett can use Substitute on Encore and eventually 3HKO Wynaut with Earthquake before Wynaut can do anything back to Diglett, besides Encore Earthquake. Be aware that Earthquake is not a very good move to have Encored though, because Drifloon and Gligar can both set up on it. Obviously Taunt works well against Wynaut, but be careful when attacking Wynaut after you Taunt it, because it can still use Counter and Mirror Coat.</p>