[Overview]

<p>Blessed with one of the best abilities for a physical attacker in the Doubles metagame, Bisharp is a force to be reckoned with. Defiant and Steel typing allows allow Bisharp to not only brush off Intimidate and Icy Wind but also grab an Attack boost from them instead. It also has access to and STAB on Sucker Punch, allowing it to take advantage of its ability against fast teams. Bisharp also does extremely well in and against Trick Room, as priority moves first both in and out of Trick Room. Rounding off the list of merits, Bisharp's typing allows it to keep common Psychic- and Dragon-types, such as Cresselia and Latios, in check.</p>

<p>That said, Bisharp is unfortunately weak to common spread moves; Heat Wave and Earthquake hit it super effectively, and it does not exactly enjoy taking Rain-boosted Surfs either. In addition to this, it also has a crippling weakness to Fighting-type moves, and being that Fighting-types resist Sucker Punch, it has a very hard time dealing with said Pokemon. In addition to these demerits, Bisharp is also very one-dimensional and is therefore predictable. Even with all these weaknesses, Bisharp is an amazing addition to teams that otherwise have problems with Intimidate and Icy Wind as its presence alone forces your opponent to think twice before using them.</p>

[SET]
name: Defiant
move 1: Sucker Punch
move 2: Iron Head / Low Kick
move 3: Low Kick / Night Slash
move 4: Protect
item: Dark Gem / Steel Gem
ability: Defiant
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to to prevent opponents from freely spamming Intimidate and Icy Wind, becoming a huge threat if they make a mistake. Its combination of the ability Defiant and access to STAB Sucker Punch allows it to fill this role consistently and effectively. Sucker Punch is the main move of this set and should be, with the possible exception of Protect, the move you are using the most. In the second spot, Iron Head is the preferred option, as it is much more consistently powerful than Low Kick due to STAB, but if you want to use Night Slash in the third slot, Low Kick provides better coverage. In the third spot, Low Kick hits problematic Steel-types that Sucker Punch and Iron Head cannot, but Night Slash is great for preventing Trick Room from being set, as it hits the majority of setters super effectively. In the final slot, Protect is obligatory; it is a massive staple on offensive Pokemon in Doubles, especially those weak to common types such as Fighting, Ground, and Fire.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Considering that Bisharp will be using Sucker Punch and Protect most of the time, Attack and HP investment is usually preferred over Speed investment, as both of these moves have priority. With 252 HP EVs, Bisharp is surprisingly bulky and can even take super effective hits such as Jolly Landorus-T's Earthquake and Modest Zapdos's Heat Wave. One could opt to run an alternative spread of 120 HP / 252 Atk / 136 Spe alongside Steel Gem, as this enables Bisharp to outspeed standard Hitmontop and OHKO with +1 Steel Gem-boosted Iron Head, but the spread is situational. If using Bisharp on a Trick Room team, you should use a Brave nature with 0 Speed IVs, as this makes the most out of Trick Room. When it comes to picking an item, Dark Gem is usually preferred, gaining important OHKOs on Pokemon such as Tornadus and Reuniclus, but Steel Gem is very useful to get that OHKO on Hitmontop. Swords Dance is also a possibility, as Bisharp forces the opponent to play carefully, which helps it find opportunities to set up.</p>

<p>When it comes to teammates, Bisharp enjoys the presence of Pokemon that can deal with Steel-types. Fire-types can roast said Steel-types; Volcarona is a notable partner, as it can also redirect Fighting-type attacks with Rage Powder. Fighting-types such as Terrakion and Hitmontop can also punch holes in Steel-types, allowing Bisharp to have an easier time breaking through the opposition. Any Pokemon susceptible to Intimidate or Icy Wind loves having Bisharp by its side, as the opponent will have to think twice about spamming said tactics. Notable Pokemon that appreciate this support are Terrakion, Landorus-T, and Tyranitar. Pokemon that carry Taunt such as Thundurus and Gyarados also support Bisharp well; Taunt support makes Sucker Punch much more reliable, as it will only fail if a Taunted Pokemon switches out or uses a faster priority move.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Bisharp has a ton of other options to try out, but many of them are very situational. Notable items to use include Life Orb, Lum Berry, Focus Sash, and Choice Band. Life Orb provides a more consistent boost, but Bisharp's bulk is ruined by the residual damage. Lum Berry allows Bisharp to avoid burn and paralysis once, but the power boost from Dark Gem is preferred. Focus Sash is great for taking threatening Fighting-type attacks, and it allows Bisharp to invest fully into Speed, but with no boost in power, Bisharp misses a lot of KOs if not boosted by Defiant. Focus Sash also helps Bisharp set up Swords Dance if you want to use that. Choice Band is definitely an item best suited for Trick Room, as outside of it, Bisharp will be open to many more Fighting-type attacks and therefore likes the ability to use Protect effectively much more.</p>

<p>With a fantastic movepool at its disposal, Bisharp naturally has many other moves to try out as well. Thunder Wave is an option if your team is focused on spreading paralysis, and Magnet Rise can be used to dodge obvious Earthquakes, but Bisharp is best suited for an offensive role, and the two moves limit its coverage. Bisharp finds the best coverage alongside its STABs in Fighting-types moves, a few of which it learns besides Low Kick. Low Sweep can be used for speed control, but Low Kick hits the majority of targets for much more damage. Brick Break is the second coverage option and is a good choice for teams that have trouble with dual screens. Pursuit is another STAB option, especially useful for fleeing Psychic-types, such as Latios. Finally, Stone Edge is an option for hitting Flying-types, such as Tornadus and Zapdos, for more damage.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best way to keep Bisharp in check is to play around it carefully; refrain from use Icy Wind and switching in an Intimidate Pokemon while Bisharp is on the field. Once you begin to play around Bisharp like this, it is not very hard to counter. The presence of faster Fighting-types, such as Terrakion, Heracross, and Breloom, put Bisharp in a living hell, as they can shrug off Sucker Punch and OHKO with their STAB moves. Most Steel-types can wall Bisharp, especially if it doesn't carry Low Kick. Notable examples include Scizor, Heatran, Escavalier, and Excadrill. Fast Dark-types with coverage moves, such as Choice Scarf Tyranitar and Hydreigon with Low Kick and Fire Blast, respectively, can put a stop to Bisharp as well, as said Pokemon can shrug off a Sucker Punch and OHKO back. Bar Jellicent, bulky Water-types, such as Politoed and Gastrodon are shaky checks, as they can easily take unboosted hits, but some miss the OHKO on Bisharp. Finally, there is Sableye which can easily play around Bisharp's Sucker Punch, and use priority Will-O-Wisp to limit its attacking capabilities.</p>

<p>In addition to typing, there are also a couple of moves that counter Bisharp's main move, Sucker Punch. Substitute dodges Sucker Punch and allows its user to pose as a threat at the same time; this move is especially effective if the Substitute user is resistant to Bisharp's coverage moves. Will-O-Wisp also avoids Sucker Punch, but instead of making its user more threatening, the move makes Bisharp less threatening. Finally, Follow Me and Rage Powder are also moves that completely shut down Sucker Punch, as both redirect it and dodge it at the same time.</p>