[Overview]

<p>Do not let Breloom's harmless appearance fool you: it is a very threatening Pokemon. Spore is a deadly move, and Breloom is one of the best users of it. If that wasn't enough, access to Technician-boosted STAB moves in Bullet Seed and Mach Punch make it a very potent physical threat. Its typing allows it to be a solid offensive check to sand and rain teams and also lets it defeat Rotom-W and Gastrodon. However, not all is well for Breloom, whose frailty and middling Speed stat leave much to be desired. Despite its flaws, however, Breloom can be a very annoying Pokemon to deal with in Doubles.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Spore
move 2: Mach Punch
move 3: Bullet Seed
move 4: Protect
ability: Technician
item: Life Orb / Focus Sash
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Spore is what makes Breloom a truly threatening Pokemon in the metagame. Putting an opposing Pokemon to sleep usually renders it useless for the remainder of the game, crippling the opposition. Mach Punch is a great tool in Breloom's arsenal as well, allowing it to have a way to get around its average Speed stat; Technician-boosted Mach Punch is great for finishing off weakened foes. Bullet Seed is Breloom's other STAB move, and it hits extremely hard. Being a multi-hit move makes it especially useful, as it can bypass the opposition's Substitutes. Bullet Seed also gets around any pesky Rindo Berries the enemy might have up their sleeve. Protect is a staple on most of the Pokemon in Doubles, and Breloom is no exception, but it is especially helpful on Breloom due to its frailty.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Low Sweep is an alternative over Protect, as it allows Breloom to KO Pokemon such as Heatran that Mach Punch would fail to knock out. Stone Edge is another possible move in this slot and is especially useful if Breloom is holding a Focus Sash, as it lets the mushroom warrior defeat otherwise major threats such as Thundurus and Chandelure. However, Life Orb is the preferred option over Focus Sash, as it gives Breloom a power boost it greatly appreciates. Focus Sash can also be broken by sandstorm, making it less reliable; however, it does often allow for a guaranteed Spore, making it very useful at times. A Fighting Gem could also be used, allowing the Breloom user to possibly get a key KO with Mach Punch or Low Sweep that would otherwise not have been possible. Max Attack is used to give Breloom as much power as possible, while a Jolly nature with 252 Speed EVs guarantees that Breloom outruns threats such as Heatran.</p>

<p>Heatran can be a good partner for Breloom, as it can make Pokemon such as Chandelure think twice about using Heat Wave, giving Breloom more leeway to work its magic. Choice Scarf Tyranitar is also a good partner, as it can eliminate threats to Breloom such as Latios and Tornadus; Breloom also defeats the bulky Water-types that give Tyranitar trouble. Breloom fits well on rain teams, as it can defeat Pokemon such as Gastrodon and Rotom-W that would otherwise cause problems; Breloom also defeats Abomasnow and Tyranitar, allowing the rain to stay on the field. Other good partners for Breloom include Pokemon who have access to moves such as Tailwind and Icy Wind, as these moves can help make up for Breloom's poor Speed stat; Suicune is a great example of a Pokemon that can fill this role.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Breloom's shallow movepool means that it lacks many other options. Helping Hand can be useful for helping Breloom's partner, and Substitute can take advantage of Breloom's ability to force switches. Breloom also has access to Swords Dance, but it is not bulky enough to use this move effectively in Doubles; the same can be said for Stun Spore. However, a bulky Poison Heal variant of Breloom can be used, as it allows Breloom to have greater longevity and a status immunity.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Pokemon that resist Breloom's STAB moves give it a lot of problems. Chandelure can tank any move outside of Stone Edge (and Spore) and sauté the beloved mushroom. Thundurus and Tornadus can do the same with Hidden Power Flying and Acrobatics, respectively. Dragonite can tank any hit if Multiscale is intact and KO Breloom with a variety of moves. Latios and Latias can wall Breloom completely (outside of Spore) and can KO it with relative ease; Heracross can do the same. Lum Berry Pokemon also cause Breloom massive problems, as they can KO it after brushing off Spore. Amoonguss and Volcarona are especially troublesome, as they can use Rage Powder to redirect Breloom's attacks. Other priority users, such as Weavile, Scizor, and Mamoswine, can also KO Breloom rather easily. Pokemon with Intimidate, such as Landorus-T and Salamence, can weaken Breloom and then KO it. Bulky Pokemon such as Cresselia and Dusclops can also sponge any hit Breloom can dish out. Due to Breloom's middling Speed stat, many Pokemon in the metagame are faster than it, meaning they can easily KO it so long as they are able to tank a Mach Punch; Jirachi and Garchomp are examples of Pokemon that can do this. Sableye can Taunt Breloom to stop Spore and then Will-O-Wisp it to incapacitate it. Cloyster can OHKO Breloom with Icicle Spear, which also conveniently bypasses Focus Sash. Finally, having sandstorm or hail can nullify Breloom's Focus Sash, allowing it to be KOed more easily.</p>