[Overview]

<p>A Pokemon that truly strikes fear in the hearts of its opponents and whose sheer presence makes them cower can be described in only three words: a giant bell. Bronzong's red eyes portray the anger it can cause its opponents through the use of Trick Room, a move that can completely turn the tide of a battle. Bronzong is one of the best users of this move due to its bulk and good typing which along with Levitate means that Bronzong is only weak to Fire-type moves. However, not all is good for Bronzong, as its offensive capabilites leave much to be desired. It also faces competition from other Trick Room setters, particularly Cresselia, which is bulkier than Bronzong and shares its Ground-type immunity. Despite its flaws, however, Bronzong can be a good team supporter for a Trick Room team.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Gyro Ball / Earthquake
move 3: Imprison / Swagger
move 4: Protect
item: Mental Herb
ability: Levitate
nature: Sassy
evs: 252 HP / 72 Def / 184 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Bronzong's bulk and solid typing to make it a solid Trick Room setter and team supporter. Gyro Ball gives Bronzong a form of offense and allows it to hit hard due to Bronzong's extremely low Speed stat. However, Earthquake is also an option, allowing Bronzong to hit Steel-types, such as Heatran, for super effective damage. Imprison is used in the third slot to stop opposing Pokemon from using Trick Room and Protect, making the opponent unable to negate Trick Room and rendering them incapable of stalling it out easily. Imprison also works well if Bronzong is running Earthquake, as it can prevent the opponent from using it, which can be useful if the blue bell is partnered with a Pokemon such as Heatran. However, Swagger is an option as well, which can be used to annoy the opposition; it also works with partners such as Persim Berry Rhyperior, giving them an Attack boost at no cost. Protect works well in the last slot, giving Bronzong more options and allowing it to scout.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Mental Herb is the item of choice, preventing Bronzong from being shut down by Taunt and Encore users, such as Thundurus and Whimsicott, respectively. The EVs allow Bronzong to survive a +1 Hydro Pump from Rotom-W in the rain; the rest of the EVs are put into Defense to give the bell more bulk. However, Bronzong can move these EVs from Defense into Attack if it's running Gyro Ball, which gives it an 87.5% chance to OHKO Terrakion. Explosion is an option in the third slot and can be nice for dealing a large amount of damage to every Pokemon on the field, but the moves listed above are usually more reliable. Psyshock and Psychic can also work on this set, letting Bronzong 2HKO Fighting-types, such as Virizion, Hitmontop, and Hariyama (8 Special Attack EVs are necessary to do this); these moves also work well if Bronzong gets hit by an Intimidate. Obviously, Pokemon that can take advantage of Trick Room, such as Conkeldurr and Rhyperior, are good partners for this set; Rhyperior is especially useful because Bronzong is immune to Earthquake, meaning that Rhyperior can use it freely without worrying about hitting its partner. Other Trick Room setters, such as Cresselia, are also useful. Heatran can be a good partner for this set as well, especially if Bronzong is running Imprison with Earthquake, as that will prevent the opposition from taking advantage of Heatran's biggest weakness. Finally, Politoed is a good teammate for Bronzong, making it less weak to the Fire-type moves that plague it.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Bronzong has access to Reflect and Light Screen, which it can use to support its team. However, Bronzong does not have enough moveslots to use them effectively. Rain Dance can be used with a Damp Rock on a rain team, providing the team with a backup rain setter in case Politoed goes down. Bulldoze is also an option to hit Steel-types without running the risk of damaging Bronzong's partner, but Earthquake is usually more useful. Hidden Power Ice is also an option, hitting Pokemon such as Garchomp and Landorus-T; this move is also useful in case Bronzong is hit by an Intimidate. Bronzong can also use Rest with a Chesto Berry to make up for its lack of recovery, but again, it simply does not have the room to do so; this strategy also isn't usually worth it. Finally, Bronzong can use Heatproof to bluff Levitate and take Fire-type moves more easily, but this is very unreliable and also stops its partners from taking advantage of its Earthquake immunity.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fire-types such as Chandelure, Volcarona, and Heatran can all dispose of Bronzong by taking advantage of its weakness to Fire-type attacks. Fake Out is also a good tool to use against Bronzong, preventing it from moving for a turn, thus giving the user's teammate a chance to potentially take Bronzong out. Detect can foil Bronzong's attempts to use Imprison to block Protect while making it waste a turn. Rain-boosted Water-type attacks can also deal a large amount of damage to the blue bell. Slow Pokemon such as Conkeldurr can use Bronzong's Trick Room against it and attempt to wreak havoc on its team. Pokemon with Protect can be useful to stall out precious turns of Trick Room, but this strategy can be stopped by Bronzong's Imprison. Gravity is a major thorn in Bronzong's side, taking away its immunity to Ground-type moves and thus allowing Pokemon such as Landorus-T to destroy it. Finally, Mold Breaker Excadrill can nullify Levitate and nail Bronzong with an Earthquake.</p>