[Overview]

<p>With base 30 Speed and huge defensive stats, Cofagrigus is a bulky Trick Room setter with excellent support options such as Will-O-Wisp. Its Ghost typing gives it an immunity to Fake Out as well as Fighting-type attacks, allowing it to wall the ever-common Hitmontop. It has a very weird ability that can sometimes rob an opposing Pokemon of its ability. This all seems great, but Dusclops has a very similar movepool and much greater defenses with Eviolite. Furthermore, its mediocre offenses and very bad four-moveslot syndrome make it largely outclassed by Dusclops. Mummy is an inferior ability to Dusclops's Pressure as some of the most useful abilities in Doubles are auto-weather and Intimidate, which activate upon switching in. Most Levitate users do not use contact moves. It can, however, eliminate other great abilities like Serene Grace from Jirachi. Unlike Dusclops, Cofagrigus isn't forced to use Eviolite but instead can use Mental Herb, Sitrus Berry, and Leftovers, giving it a small niche over Dusclops.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Will-O-Wisp
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Protect
item: Mental Herb / Sitrus Berry
nature: Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 220 Def / 36 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is fairly straightforward, working like most other Trick Room users in Doubles. Simply use Trick Room the first chance you get, with Mental Herb preventing your opponent from stopping you with Taunt. Rage Powder support from Amoonguss is especially useful, deflecting attacks aimed at Cofagrigus. Amoonguss is then guaranteed to use Spore bar Prankster users such as Sableye and Tornadus Taunting it. Intimidate and Fake Out support from Scrafty, which can do great damage to Tyranitar by 2HKOing Chople Berry variants with Drain Punch while recovering HP, is also good.</p>

<p>Once Trick Room is up, start burning your opponent's team with Will-O-Wisp and providing extra damage for your teammate with Shadow Ball. The burn from Will-O-Wisp is great for crippling Ferrothorn (which outspeeds Cofagrigus in Trick Room), Tyranitar, Scizor, Hitmontop, Garchomp, Metagross, Landorus-T, and even Kyurem-B, as well as putting a timer on Pokemon using Leftovers or recovery moves. Protect is a staple move in Doubles, preventing Cofagrigus from taking damage from spread moves such as Earthquake from the likes of Rhyperior. It also gives Cofagrigus Leftovers recovery if it chooses to run that item over the two already listed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs maximize Cofagrigus's mediocre base 58 HP as well as giving Cofagrigus a chance to survive Tyranitar's Crunch and possibly avoid a 2HKO if you can land a burn with Will-O-Wisp, while minimizing Cofagrigus's Speed to make the best use of Trick Room. The rest of the EVs are put into Cofagrigus's good Special Defense. If Cofagrigus uses a Sitrus Berry, it is guaranteed to survive the 2HKO from a burned Tyranitar and keeps Cofagrigus alive and kicking for providing further burn support. Slow offensive Pokemon such as Conkeldurr, Rhyperior, Gastrodon, Slowking, and Ferrothorn are the best partners for Cofagrigus. Gastrodon in particular makes a fantastic check to rain teams thanks to the Special Attack boost from Storm Drain.</p>

<p>Cofagrigus has some other viable options, but beware as you must get rid of Protect to fit them on a set. Rest and Chesto Berry lets Cofagrigus last longer, potentially giving it a chance to use Trick Room again later in the match if need be. Pain Split is a shaky recovery option, but does well against Pokemon with high HP such as Cresselia, which can't do much back to Cofagrigus and will fall to repeated Shadow Balls. Finally, Colbur Berry is a good option to get around Tyranitar's Crunch, really frustrating it after a burn.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Yet again, Cofagrigus's moveslots are quite limited, preventing it from running too many other options. Hidden Power Fighting gives Cofagrigus perfect neutral coverage, but is very weak even against Pokemon weak to it such as Tyranitar. Nasty Plot can make these moves very powerful, and can be set up before Trick Room, but Taunt is a big obstacle for this strategy and Cofagrigus must sacrifice a lot of bulk to make it as powerful as possible. Calm Mind boosts Cofagrigus's inferior Special Defense, but it will take multiple boosts to make its Special Attack worth using. Imprison can be used to prevent a foe from using Trick Room, allowing it to act as an anti-Trick Room supporter. Disable allows Cofagrigus to shut down an opponent's utility moves such as Protect and Will-O-Wisp, as well as preventing a 2HKO from Tyranitar. After You is an interesting option to allow a speedy teammate to move first even in Trick Room, and is really good for hybrid Trick Room teams. Finally, please do not use Slaking with Fury Cutter to adopt Mummy from Cofagrigus. It's really predictable and your opponent will have no qualms double targeting Slaking before it can even attack.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taunt users can mess up Cofagrigus pretty badly, preventing Cofagrigus from setting up Trick Room unless it's running Mental Herb, while preventing it from using Will-O-Wisp by just using Taunt again. Sableye is a great choice as it is immune to the likes of Scrafty's Fake Out, can easily Taunt Cofagrigus twice even in Trick Room, and can burn Cofagrigus and its partners easily. Cresselia is a great anti-Trick Room Pokemon, using Trick Room simultaneously with Cofagrigus while not taking too much damage from Shadow Ball even with minimal Special Defense investment. If all else fails, just attack it repeatedly until it falls.</p>