[Overview]

<p>A Pokemon with godlike defenses rivaling those of Shuckle and a phenomenal HP stat that puts even Blissey to shame... this is the complete opposite of Deoxys-Attack. A dismal HP stat with pathetic defenses means that Deoxys-A will be OHKOed by almost every Pokemon in the game; it is the ultimate glass cannon. However, despite its pathetic durability, Deoxys-A's offensive prowess makes it a truly threatening behemoth. Base 180 attacking stats with unparalleled coverage and a 140 Base Power STAB move in Psycho Boost means that it can OHKO most of the metagame. Deoxys-A is truly a legend that all teams should be prepared to face.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Psycho Boost
move 2: Dark Pulse / ExtremeSpeed
move 3: Superpower / Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Protect
item: Focus Sash / Life Orb
nature: Rash
evs: 20 Atk / 252 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set utilizes Deoxys-A's raw power and phenomenal coverage in the most effective way possible. STAB Psycho Boost can KO most of the tier, and can still do major damage to the opposition even after the Special Attack drop it causes. Dark Pulse can work well against Psychic-types, such as Cresselia and Reuniclus, that resist Psycho Boost. However, ExtremeSpeed can also work; as Deoxys-A's lone priority move, it can work well to KO weakened Choice Scarf and priority users. Superpower lets Deoxys-A annihilate Dark-types, such as Tyranitar, and Steel-types; Hidden Power Fire also works in this slot, however, letting Deoxys-A hit Scizor and Genesect while foregoing its ability to hit Tyranitar and other Dark-types as hard. Finally, Protect is key in the last slot, allowing Deoxys-A to block opposing Fake Outs.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is key on this set, as it allows Deoxys-A to take any hit despite its low defenses. However, Life Orb can also be a useful item, as it can help Deoxys-A get key KOs on Pokemon such as Heatran that it could not otherwise. Life Orb is a better choice on sand and hail teams, as well as teams without weather control, as sand and hail will render Deoxys-A's Focus Sash worthless anyway. The EVs take full advantage of Deoxys-A's offensive prowess, with enough Speed investment to move before Jolteon and Scarf Cloyster; Rash nature maximizes its Special Attacking power. Stealth Rock can be used over Protect and can work against teams with Pokemon such as Thundurus, but Protect's versatility makes it a more reliable option. Ice Beam can be used over Dark Pulse, retaining coverage on Latias and Latios, while gaining super effective coverage on Pokemon such as Landorus-T and Garchomp, but its inability to hit Reuniclus and Cresselia super effectively means it is usually a worse option.</p>

<p>Deoxys-A appreciates a partner that minimizes the opponent's chance to retaliate. Thus pairing Deoxys-A with a powerful priority user, such as Bisharp, or a speedy Sweeper; such as Life Orb Darkrai, Genesect, or Volcarona, is recommended. The aforementioned teammates also offer powerful Fire-, Dark-, or Bug-type offenses to combat troublesome Steel- and Psychic-types, potentially freeing up one of Deoxys-A's moveslot for a different type of coverage or utility move, such as Ice Beam or ExtremeSpeed. Pokemon with Follow Me or Rage Powder, such as Jirachi, Togekiss, and Volcarona, can also be good partners, as Deoxys-A can OHKO most of the tier by itself. Hitmontop is also a very good partner due to its access to Wide Guard, which can block spread moves, Feint, which can break Protect, and Fake Out, which can leave potentially dangerous threats vulnernable to being OHKOed by Deoxys-A. Speed control is also very important when using this set due to Deoxys-A's pathetic bulk, so Pokemon that can use Tailwind, such as Tornadus, can be a big help; Tornadus also has access to Prankster Taunt, which can stop the opposition from using moves such as Thunder Wave and Trick Room which would render Deoxys-A useless.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Deoxys-A's wide movepool means that it has a large amount of other options. For example, it can use Thunder or Thunderbolt to hit Water-types; however, Psycho Boost can usually OHKO them regardless. Substitute can make Deoxys-A a monster, but is very difficult to get up safely. It also has access to Taunt to stop the opposition from trying to paralyze it or set up Trick Room. Rock Slide is an option as well, being Deoxys-A's only spread move, but the coverage moves provided usually work much more effectively. Finally, an all-out Special variant of Deoxys-A can be used with Psycho Boost / Ice Beam / Hidden Power Fire / Protect, but a mixed set usually works better.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Hitmontop can use Fake Out to break Deoxys-A's Focus Sash, and also has access to Feint to break Deoxys-A's predicted Protect. Tyranitar and Abomasnow can break Deoxys-A's Focus Sash with their respective weather abilities, making them solid answers to it. Priority users such as Breloom and Scizor can also be great answers to Deoxys-A, especially if it is not carrying a Focus Sash. Bulky Steel-types, such as Metagross and Bronzong, can also be a problem, as they can tank Superpower and Hidden Power Fire and KO Deoxys-A in return. Spread moves can also pose a major problem to Deoxys-A, as the reduced power will not matter due to Deoxys-A's frailty. Jirachi can tank any of Deoxys-A's hits easily, and can redirect its attacks with Follow Me. Scrafty can lower its attack and KO Deoxys-A with Crunch, while Bisharp can kill it with Sucker Punch. Swift Swim Pokemon can also defeat Deoxys-A easily. Cresselia and Reuniclus can tank a Dark Pulse from Deoxys-A and KO it in return. Finally, Thundurus-I can Thunder Wave Deoxys-A and effectively neutralize it; Pokemon with Tailwind or Trick Room can also render Deoxys-A useless.</p>