[Overview]

<p>Genesect's decent base Speed stat allows it to outrun a plethora of major threats in the Doubles metagame. Genesect also has great attacking stats, letting it take on the role of a physical or special attacker and making it easy to fit on teams. Its BoltBeam coverage is stellar, and its attacking prowess can be boosted significantly by a favorable Download boost. It also has access to STAB U-turn, which allows it to scout out the enemy team and makes it a potent Choice Scarf user. Its typing leaves it with only one weakness, albeit a large one, but unfortunately, its bulk leaves it unable to fully take advantage of it. Genesect fears paralysis and is dead weight in Trick Room, so it needs teammates that can cover those weaknesses.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: U-turn / Bug Buzz
move 2: Ice Beam / Blizzard
move 3: Thunderbolt / Thunder
move 4: Protect / Flamethrower
item: Expert Belt / Life Orb
nature: Hasty / Timid
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set makes use of Genesect's BoltBeam coverage to hit almost everything for at least neutral damage and many Pokemon super effectively. U-turn is great for scouting the opponent's team and is an option for when Genesect gets an Attack boost from Download. It also hits common Pokemon such as Tyranitar in sandstorm for more damage than Bug Buzz, which is still a viable alternative if you want a special STAB that is unaffected by Intimidate. Thunder is the better choice for rain teams and can OHKO 252/0 Politoed, provided Genesect has a Special Attack boost from Download; however, it is risky if rain is not up. Ice Beam deals with Dragons-types and other Pokemon 4x weak to it, such as Landorus-T, allowing Genesect to outspeed and KO them. Protect is standard for prediction and can keep Genesect safe while its counters are removed. Flamethrower is an option over Protect to increase Genesect's coverage but means Genesect is even more threatened by its checks and counters, and will be forced to switch out more often.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With a favorable Download boost, Genesect can easily defeat a lot of Pokemon with not-so-stellar defenses; however, anything with decent bulk can force it out. Genesect also hates Trick Room, as it works against Genesect's Speed. Pokemon with moves such as Taunt to stop the enemy from using Trick Room can be good partners. This set really benefits from Tailwind support as it helps Genesect take on faster opponents and also lets it U-turn out into a Tailwind setter to keep momentum. Genesect partners well with Chandelure and Heatran, as they make opponents think twice about using Fire-type attacks. Genesect takes no damage from sandstorm, meaning it is easy to fit onto a sandstorm team. Giga Drain can be used to take down Gastrodon if it is an issue. Blizzard is viable, especially in hail, as it really packs a punch and can deal major damage. A Focus Sash can secure a few surprise KOs, but Expert Belt and Life Orb are generally better. Expert Belt is the preferred choice for most teams as it helps Genesect get a number of significant KOs with no drawbacks. Genesect can also use a Life Orb to increase its damage output, but it means that Genesect is worn down much faster.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Thunderbolt / Thunder
move 4: Flamethrower / Bug Buzz / Explosion
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Rash 
evs: 136 Atk / 252 SpA / 120 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Genesect is one of the premier Choice Scarf users in the tier thanks to its good Speed stat and ability to beat other common Choice Scarf users such as Landorus-T with its Download-boosted attacks. BoltBeam coverage means that only a select few Pokemon resist Genesect's coverage. U-turn makes Genesect an excellent scout. It also allows it to dent Pokemon such as Cresselia and Tyranitar, and provides an answer to Reuniclus, one of the most popular Trick Room setters. With a beneficial Download boost, U-turn OHKOes both Latios and Latias, thus taking a major threat out of the game. Thunder will OHKO max HP Politoed 75% of the time, making it the better option for a rain team; however, Thunderbolt still packs quite a punch. The last slot depends on your team. Flamethrower provides more coverage but is worse on rain teams, on the one hand while Bug Buzz gives Genesect a special STAB move in case you don't want it to switch out. Explosion is great late-game, and can help deal with things your team might struggle with. Genesect must always be wary of getting predicted and locked into a bad move, as it doesn't have much bulk to rely on. Make sure you scout out the enemy's Choice Scarf users before being too reckless with Genesect due to this frailty. Furthermore, Choice Scarf Genesect hates dealing with sun teams, as it can't do much damage to many of their major threats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV Spread allows Genesect to outspeed everything up to and including Deoxys-A (with 236 Speed EVs). The extra EVs in Attack allows Genesect to 2HKO Cressellia provided it receives an attack boost from Download. Giga Drain can be used in the last slot if your team has trouble dealing with the commonly seen Gastrodon. Genesect benefits greatly from a Pokemon that resists Fire-type attacks, such as Tyranitar; Genesect's immunity to sandstorm makes Tyranitar an even better partner. Chandelure also works as a great partner, as it can also get a boost from Fire-type attacks directed at Genesect.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Genesect can run a powerful Choice Band or physical Life Orb set, which has the power to OHKO every weather starter in the metagame with either Explosion or U-turn; it also has decent coverage with Blaze Kick to KO Steel-types and has revenge killing potential with ExtremeSpeed. A Focus Sash might allow Genesect to grab a few surprise KOs, and Genesect's immunity to sandstorm makes Focus Sash a more reliable item, but other items are generally better. Genesect can run an Occa Berry, but it still won't be able to survive most powerful Fire-type attacks used in the tier. Bug Gem is also an option for allowing Genesect to do major damage to Cresselia and Tyranitar without restricting its move selection, but Choice Band is generally the better item choice if you want extra power. Rock Polish is available, but Genesect doesn't quite have the bulk to pull it off in Doubles. Sitrus Berry is nice for longevity, but it is generally worse than more offensive items such as Expert Belt.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fire-type Pokemon, such as Heatran, Volcarona, Chandelure, and Ninetales, do not fear Genesect at all and can easily exploit its 4x weakness to Fire-type moves without taking much damage from its attacks. Excadrill in sand and Kingdra in rain are also big threats, as their powerful moves will deal a lot of damage to Genesect. Choice Scarf users such as Landorus-T and Garchomp also threaten Genesect with powerful spread moves such as Earthquake, though it is worth noting that Choice Scarf Genesect can beat Landorus-T with Ice Beam. Genesect can't really do much to Pokemon such as Hitmontop and Kyurem-B, either of which can strike back and take a serious chunk out of its health.</p>