[Overview]

<p>Hariyama is the definition of a Trick Room Pokemon. Thanks to  Fake Out, it can directly support Trick Room setters as well as  activating its ability, Guts, on the same turn, making it a very potent  threat. What sets Hariyama apart from other Trick Room Fighting-Type  Pokemon is its access to Close Combat and Fake Out. Though Hitmontop has  both, it doesn't have the massive base 144 HP stat or the sheer power  Hariyama has. However, Hariyama struggles outside of Trick Room and takes a  lot of residual damage from Toxic and weather. Despite this, it should  not be overlooked for a team, as it has the power and bulk to do lots of  damage.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Attacker
move 1: Close Combat
move 2: Stone Edge / Ice Punch
move 3: Detect / Feint / Wide Guard
move 4: Fake Out
item: Toxic Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Brave
evs: 8 HP / 252 Atk / 248 Def
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Hariyama is a Pokemon that will usually be seen on more offensive versions of Trick Room teams. Thanks to Fake Out, Hariyama will be great support in helping it get set up. Once Trick Room is set up, Hariyama is now a feared attacker thanks to its Guts ability that will activate the turn Fake Out is used. Close Combat is the most powerful STAB option Hariyama has and lets it deal major damage to anything not immune or resistant to Fighting-type attacks. Stone Edge allows you to hit Flying-type Pokemon such as Zapdos and Tornadus harder than Ice Punch would, but Ice Punch gives you coverage against Dragon and Grass-Type Pokemon like Latios and Latias, as well as Landorus, which doesn't take much from Stone Edge. There are a few moves that can be used in the third moveslot. Detect is used instead of Protect on Fighting-types to guard from Pokemon using Imprison as well as attacks. Feint is an interesting move to be used in Trick Room, allowing Hariyama's teammates to hit opponents that are trying to Protect stall Trick Room turns, while Wide Guard will be used to protect Pokemon like Chandelure from very common spread moves that they're weak to. The EV spread on this set allows Hariyama to tank attacks from a few common Pokemon. It will be able to live an unboosted Zen Headbutt from Metagross 100% of the time, as well as living a non Gem-Boosted Acrobatics from Tornadus 75% of the time factoring in damage from after-turn effects. This set also runs 0 Speed IVs as well as a Speed-reducing nature to ensure that Hariyama is as fast as possible in Trick Room.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Hariyama has great typing synergy with most Trick Room setters.  Pokemon like Cresselia, Chandelure, and Jellicent all share a weakness  to common Dark-type Pokemon like Tyranitar and Scrafty, both of which  Hariyama can easily handle. Thanks to Guts's 1.5 attack boost, Haiyiama doesn't worry about  Intimidate Pokemon like other physical threats do. Toxic Orb is superior to Flame Orb since Hariyama is very rarely alive  long enough for the residual poison to begin out-damaging the burn. Hariyama has a couple of other moves that it can utilize, such as Rock Slide, which provides it with the ability to hit both opponents simultaneously and provides a chance to flinch. ThunderPunch lets Hariyama break through Water-Type Pokemon such as Jellicent and Gyarados.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Thanks to a very diverse movepool, Hariyama has many neat tricks it can pull off in battle. Hariyama can play many different supporting roles thanks to a few surprise factor moves. Helping Hand will allow your teammates to have powered-up attacks for a turn, while Rain Dance and Sunny Day can be used for manual weather. Brick Break is an alternative to Close Combat and can dispose of enemy screens, should only be used if Hariyama fears the defense drops from Close Combat. Fling, when paired with an Iron Ball, will allow Hariyama to deal major damage to bulky Psychic and Ghost-type Pokemon it would otherwise not be able to touch. Finally, Belly Drum can be used to give Hariyama an insane Attack boost. The last thing worth mentioning is that Hariyama can use two different abilities in place of Guts. Thick Fat allows it to play a more defensive role, letting it tank Ice- and Fire-type attacks easier. Sheer Force boosts the power of moves such as Rock Slide and the elemental punches without fear of Life Orb recoil. Be warned though, as Sheer Force also removes the flinch from Fake Out.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Psychic and Ghost-type Pokemon will be the biggest problem Hariyama will face. Pokemon like Cresselia, Musharna, Dusclops, and Jellicent wall most of, if not all sets that Hariyama can run. Intimidate users that aren't weak to its attacks are also a problem, such as Gyarados.</p>

<p>Hariyama's bulk is amazing, but it still takes heavy damage from super effective attacks; Flying- and Psychic-types always directly threaten it. Examples include Acrobatics from Pokemon like Tornadus and Crobat as well as Air Slash and Hidden Power Flying From Togekiss, Thundurus, and Salamence. Latios, Latias, and Reuniclus all have powerful Psychic-type STABs that deal major damage to it as well. The last thing that counters Hariyama, though indirectly, are Pokemon that can stop Trick Room from getting set up. Double Taunters are one of the few things that stop a Hariyama and Trick Room setting lead, and Hariyama struggles outside of Trick Room and will be taken down fairly quickly.</p>
