[Overview]

<p>With a monstrous base 125 Special Attack, as well as an amazing offensive typing to go along with it, Hydreigon is a force to be reckoned with in Doubles. While Hydreigon might appear to be outclassed by other special attacking Dragon-types such as Latios and Salamence, it has several perks to differentiate itself. Hydreigon has an excellent movepool with moves such as Fire Blast, Earth Power, and Dark Pulse, and it lacks a weakness to both Rock Slide and Sucker Punch, which plague the other two Dragon-types. What truly differentiates Hydreigon from its brethren is its Dark typing, allowing it to check common Pokemon such as Cresselia and Chandelure. Hydreigon is not without its flaws, however. While its typing does give it useful resistances, it also gives it crippling weaknesses to the common Fighting-, Ice-, and Dragon-type moves. Hydreigon also faces a large amount of competition from other special attacking Dragon-types, as its awkward base 98 Speed leaves it outsped by Salamence and Latios, as well as Genesect. Despite these setbacks, Hydreigon's versatility and power make it a great Pokemon overall.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Draco Meteor / Dragon Pulse
move 2: Dark Pulse
move 3: Fire Blast / Earth Power / Tailwind
move 4: Protect 
item: Life Orb / Dragon Gem
ability: Levitate
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Hydreigon's amazing offensive typing and Special Attack, it can function as an amazing special attacker. Draco Meteor is Hydreigon's main STAB; with a Dragon Gem boost, it deals a significant amount of damage to anything that doesn't resist it. However, Dragon Pulse is an option if you prefer consistency, but its lower Base Power makes it an inferior option overall. Dark Pulse is Hydreigon's secondary STAB move and deals a large amount of damage to common Trick Room users such as Reuniclus, Cresselia, and Musharna. Fire Blast gets amazing coverage with Hydreigon's Dragon STAB, hitting Steel-types such as Jirachi and Metagross for a great amount of damage. Earth Power can be used over Fire Blast to hit Heatran and Tyranitar for super effective damage while still hitting Steel-types hard. If none of these coverage moves interest you, then Tailwind can be used to increase Hydreigon's Speed to amazing levels and allow it to outspeed and OHKO faster threats such as Latios, Salamence, and Garchomp. Protect is the best option in the last slot, as it allows Hydreigon to avoid damage from the foe's attacks.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If you are using Tailwind, then an EV spread of 80 HP / 176 Spe / 252 SpA with a Modest nature is recommended to outpace Adamant Excadrill in the sand. A Modest nature is the preferred nature if you are using a Dragon Gem, as many bulky walls that have EVs to survive Timid Latios's Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor will be overwhelmed by Modest Hydregon's Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor. While the Dragon Gem does allow Hydreigon to break through bulky special walls, the Life Orb is the preferred item to boost the power of Hydreigon's coverage moves, giving it the power to 2HKO Cresselia with Dark Pulse and OHKO Metagross with Fire Blast. A Chople Berry can be used to survive relatively powerful Fighting-type attacks such as Terrakion's Close Combat, but the extra power from the Life Orb or Dragon Gem is usually more useful. Flamethrower or Heat Wave can be used for a more accurate alternate to Fire Blast, with the latter hitting both Pokemon on the foe's side of the field. However, the extra power that Fire Blast provides is much more useful. Focus Blast can be used to OHKO Tyranitar and Bisharp while still hitting Steel-types super effectually, but its low accuracy is a major drawback. Pokemon that can cover up Hydreigon's weaknesses are great partners. Jirachi is an amazing partner, as it can redirect the powerful Dragon- and Ice-type moves aimed at Hydreigon with Follow Me while also providing Thunder Wave support to mitigate Hydreigon's average Speed. Excadrill is a great offensive partner, as it can destroy nearly every relevant Steel-type with Earthquake, allowing Hydreigon to use Draco Meteor without risk late-game.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Hydreigon has plenty of other options to choose from thanks to its amazing movepool. Taunt is a very useful move that Hydreigon has access to, allowing it to shut down defensive Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Cresselia. A Dark Gem can also be used to boost the power of Dark Pulse, but Hydreigon's Dark STAB not only has worse coverage than its Dragon STAB, but it also has less Base Power. Surf is an option if Hydreigon is being used on a rain team, but other Dragon-types, such as Kingdra and Latios, make better users of the move. A Choice Scarf or Choice Specs can be used to increase Hydreigon's power or Speed, respectively, but these items ruin Hydreigon's main draw over other Dragon-types: its amazing coverage. U-Turn can be used in conjunction with Tailwind to bring in a more suitable Tailwind sweeper. Thunder Wave is another option Hydreigon can use, as it cripples many faster threats, such as Shaymin-S and Thundurus. Finally, Hydreigon can use Psych Up to copy the opponent's stat changes, which would remove the stat drops from Draco Meteor and Icy Wind.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Hydreigon's incredible coverage and power make it very difficult to counter. Chansey and Blissey can take whatever Hydreigon throws at it and can slowly wear it down with Seismic Toss. Occa Berry Metagross paired with Tyranitar is a very good check, as the Occa Berry allows it to take one Fire Blast, and the combination of Meteor Mash and Bullet Punch will KO Hydreigon after two turns of sandstorm damage. Apart from Earth Power and Focus Blast, Heatran can take whatever Hydreigon throws at it and can 2HKO Hydreigon with Dragon Pulse. Jirachi can paralyze Hydreigon and wear it down with multiple Iron Heads, but it must watch out for Fire Blast. Apart from Focus Blast, Tyranitar isn't fazed by any of Hydreigon's attacks can and 2HKO it with Low Kick.</p>

<p>While Hydreigon is very difficult to counter, its common weaknesses make it rather easy to check. Breloom, Conkeldur, and Mamoswine can all revenge kill Hydreigon with a super effective priority move, while Pokemon such as Latios, Terrakion, Genesect, Volcarona, and Salamence can all outspeed and OHKO Hydreigon with a super effective STAB move. Choice Scarf Kyurem-B, Cloyster, and Abomasnow can also revenge kill Hydreigon. However, many of the aforementioned Pokemon become risky checks if Hydreigon has a Tailwind boost.</p>