[Overview]

<p>Jirachi's sudden celebrity status lies in its newfound access to the holy grail of Doubles: Follow Me. With an excellent Steel / Psychic typing, which gives it resistances to common Ice-, Dragon-, and Psychic-type attacks, and solid stats, Jirachi is an excellent user of the move. Unfortunately, Jirachi is quite susceptible to common spread moves such as Earthquake, Heat Wave, and Surf, which puts a damper on its supportive capabilities. While Follow Me support is undoubtedly a great niche, Jirachi can't run any other set effectively. Don't be fooled though; despite having only one role, Jirachi excels at it and will almost always do its job successfully.</p>

[SET]
name: Follow Me
move 1: Follow Me
move 2: Psychic / Iron Head
move 3: Thunder Wave / Icy Wind
move 4: Helping Hand / Protect
item: Sitrus Berry
nature: Calm / Careful
evs: 252 HP / 148 SpD / 108 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Jirachi's excellent defensive typing and good Speed stat make it the Follow Me user best suited to taking Dragon-type moves. Follow Me lets the magic happen, allowing Jirachi to redirect powerful attacks away from its teammate. This allows Jirachi's teammate to smash away at the opposition undisturbed or use its setup moves to become even more dangerous. Psychic is Jirachi's best STAB move, allowing it to 2HKO Hitmontop and OHKO Breloom without any Special Attack investment. Iron Head also works well due to its fantastic 60% flinch rate; provided that the enemy taking this attack is slower, Jirachi can very often make it flinch and thus keep its teammate from being harmed. Thunder Wave works quite well in conjunction with Iron Head and can cripple fast attackers such as Deoxys-A and Shaymin-S. Icy Wind also lowers the opposition's Speed but has the added benefits of hitting both opponents, being insusceptible to Taunt, and doing a good chunk of damage to the likes of Garchomp. Helping Hand allows Jirachi to be even more of a team player by giving it the ability to amplify the attacking power of its teammate, while Protect can be used to shield Jirachi from its teammates's Earthquakes and Surfs.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given Speed EVs allow Jirachi to outspeed max Speed Breloom and OHKO it with Psychic. A specially defensive spread is used so that Jirachi can take as many Draco Meteors as possible. Alternatively, a physically defensive spread can also work, allowing Jirachi to better take physical Dragon-type moves. The choice of nature is dependent on whether Jirachi is carrying Iron Head or Psychic. If you decide to use Psychic, then a Calm nature is your best bet, and if you want to use Iron Head, then a Careful nature is advised.</p>

<p>Powerful, frail Pokemon benefit greatly from Jirachi's support. Dragon-types, such as Latios and Garchomp, appreciate Jirachi's ability to tank Dragon-type attacks for them. Manaphy also appreciates Jirachi's support, as it can set up a Tail Glow undisturbed and deluge the opponent with its boosted Water-type moves. Trick Room teams benefit from Jirachi's support as well, as Follow Me will prevent the Trick Room user from being hit with Taunt or Fake Out as it attempts to set up. Shaymin-S appreciates Jirachi's paralysis support, as it can help Shaymin-S flinch its opponents to death; Jirachi can also redirect priority moves and Ice-type attacks from Shaymin-S.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Body Slam and Thunder can both be used to simultaneously deal damage and spread paralysis, but both are rather inconsistent in doing the latter. Gravity can be used to benefit powerful Ground-types, such as Garchomp and Excadrill. Lum Berry can be used to rid Jirachi of annoying status afflictions, and Shuca Berry and Occa Berry can temporarily minimize Jirachi's Ground- and Fire-type weaknesses, respectively. Skill Swap can be used to reactivate Intimidate and weather abilities and even give a Pokemon such as Scald Politoed Serene Grace. Swagger is another option and can be used in desperate situations to induce confusion onto Jirachi's opponent; this can otherwise turn a losing situation into a 50/50 coin flip. Last but not least, Healing Wish can be used on weakened weather inducers, such as Politoed, so that they have a better chance at winning the weather war; Healing Wish also works just as well on any weakened Pokemon.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>If Jirachi is lacking Iron Head, Cresselia and Tyranitar are full stops to it. If it's lacking Psychic, then Thundurus-T deals with it fairly well too. Outside of individual Pokemon, countering Jirachi is a matter of stopping it from supporting its teammates. Taunt is generally the best way to go, as Jirachi can pose only as a minor threat when unable to use its support moves. Powerful multi-target moves, such as Earthquake, work well too. Garchomp, the Landorus formes, and Excadrill in particular can 2HKO Jirachi with ease. Heat Wave from Ninetales, Heatran, and any other Fire-types can work just as well, but beware of Politoed diminishing the power of said Fire-type move. Speaking of Politoed, Jirachi can be taken down when overwhelmed with powerful Water-type moves. Politoed and Kingdra in particular can continually pressure Jirachi and its teammate with powerful rain-boosted Surfs. In general, spread moves ruin Jirachi's day, as they make Follow Me support obsolete. Facing opponents that use those kind of attacks will render Jirachi almost useless.</p>