[Overview]

<p>Thanks to its great offensive stats as well as two excellent ability choices, Landorus can quickly pose a threat to opposing teams. Sand Force turns it into a potent sand sweeper, granting Landorus's physical moves a sizable damage increase. Access to STAB-boosted Earthquake further bolsters Landorus's offenses, providing it with a powerful spread move. Its other ability, On top of that, its base 101 Speed allows it to outpace important Pokemon such as Volcarona and Manaphy. Its decent bulk and good typing helps provide useful resistances and immunities, such as to Ground-, Fighting-, and Electric-type attacks. Sadly however, its typing leaves it weak to other common spread moves such as Blizzard and Surf, and it can struggle against some team types due to this. Landorus can overcome these minor setbacks though, and its offensive prowess, typing, and bulk give more than enough reasons to use it.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Earth Power
move 2: Hidden Power Flying / Psychic
move 3: Grass Knot / Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Protect
item: Life Orb / Yache Berry
ability: Sheer Force
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>When using Sheer Force, Landorus quickly becomes a fearsome special attacker, with its high Speed and Special Attack letting it quickly put holes in the opposing team. Landorus is also the only Pokemon in the tier that can be an effective Ground-type special attacker, so it is a great option to avoid using Earthquake, which can injure your partners. Earth Power is the main STAB move on the set, and is a great option since it gets a boost from Sheer Force and can do good damage to anything it hits neutrally. Hidden Power Flying is a nice option to hit Grass-types such as Breloom and Amoonguss harder than Earth Power would and has good coverage with Earth Power. Psychic is another option, hitting Fighting-types and other Pokemon such as Amoonguss as well as freeing Landorus to use Hidden Power Ice to hit Dragon-types. However while Psychic does have more power than Hidden Power Flying, it is resisted by important Pokemon such as Latios, Cresselia, Scrafty, and Hydreigon. Grass Knot is used to hit bulky Water-types such as Jellicent and Gastrodon for more damage than Earth Power would, which is great because they can easily tank an Earth Power and KO Landorus in return. Hidden Power Ice is an option to hit Grass-types super effectively and also grants coverage on Dragon-types such as Salamence and Latios.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is the main item listed because Sheer Force negates its recoil drawback on some of Landorus's moves, essentially giving Landorus a free 30% damage increase. Yache Berry is another good option to let Landorus live an Ice Shard or Hidden Power Ice that would normally take it out with ease. With max Speed and a Timid nature, Landorus is able to pass the important base 100 Speed tier and outpace Pokemon such as Manaphy and Volcarona. However, a spread of 88 HP / 252 SpA / 168 Spe and a Modest nature can be used to outspeed neutral base 90s if you want more power. Focus Sash can be used if you want Landorus to be able to live through any hit at full health and strike back, but it can be broken easily, and Landorus appreciates the Life Orb boost. A Ground Gem is also a nice option for a high-powered Earth Power, but Life Orb's consistent power boost is usually preferable. Sludge Wave can be used to give Landorus a spread move, but lack of STAB and the fact that it hits Landorus's partner generally makes it a subpar option. Focus Blast can be a nice option since it hits Rotom-W, Kyurem-B, and Hydreigon harder than any other moves it has, as well as providing excellent coverage alongside HP Flying. Sadly, its shaky accuracy makes it very risky to use in the fast-paced Doubles format.</p>

<p>Landorus has trouble against Rain and Hail teams due to being weak to attacks commonly found on those teams, so Pokemon such as Rotom-W and Breloom make for great partners since they can handle those team types. Pokemon such as Tyranitar also make for excellent partners since they can deal heavy damage to Cresselia and Latios, who are otherwise hard counters to Landorus. Speed control such as Icy Wind is useful to allow Landorus to beat Pokemon such as Shaymin-S and Latios who would otherwise easily outspeed Landorus. Substitute can be used to let Landorus protect itself from stat drops and attacks, but the lack of an additional coverage move can hamper Landorus's offenses.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Rock Slide / Stone Edge
move 3: Substitute / U-Turn / Explosion
move 4: Protect
item: Yache Berry / Normal Gem
ability: Sand Force
nature: Adamant
evs: 88 HP / 252 Atk / 168 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While one might think that Excadrill is generally more suited to run a set like this, Sand Force, superior typing, and less of a reliance on sand being up all allow Landorus to carve out a great niche for itself. Earthquake is the main STAB move, and is a great attack since it can hit both opposing Pokemon at once. One must be wary of using it though since it hits your ally as well, so be sure to have a Pokemon with a Ground-type immunity on the field or have your ally use Protect to avoid taking damage. Rock Slide is a good coverage option since it can hit the Flying-types and Levitate Pokemon that would not be affected by Earthquake. While it has spread coverage, which can be useful, it also deals middling damage due to the lack of STAB and spread damage reduction, so Stone Edge is an option to deal more damage against targets. Stone Edge also lets you play around Wide Guard, which can come in handy when you need to KO Pokemon such as Volcarona. Since those two moves already grant it great coverage, Substitute makes a great option in the 3rd slot to shield Landorus from powerful spread moves and ease prediction. Thanks to Landorus's good bulk and typing, it doesn't have trouble setting up a Substitute, especially when one of the Pokemon out on the opposing side is a supporter. Once sitting behind a Substitute, Landorus has no trouble tearing holes in opposing teams. Substitute is also great to take advantage of moves such as Protect, Wide Guard, and Sucker Punch that your opponent may be using. If you're not comfortable using Substitute, U-turn is an option to bring another Pokemon in without the loss of momentum that accompanies switching out. Using Landorus with a Normal Gem and Explosion can be a good way to net some kills against an unsuspecting opponent, but it will hit your partner for high amounts of damage if it lacks an immunity and is not using Protect, so it can be a constraining option at times.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Yache Berry is the main option here to let Landorus live through Ice Shards, non-STAB Hidden Powers, and Ice Beams that would otherwise take it out, but if using Explosion, a Normal Gem should be used. Life Orb can be an option to grant Landorus even more destructive power, but the recoil can hurt Landorus's longevity, especially when using Substitute. Soft Sand is a good option to grant a consistent 20% damage increase to Landorus's Earthquake. A Ground Gem is also a cool choice to power up Earthquake, although it provides a one-time benefit, so Landorus might be better served by other items. Leftovers can be nice when using Substitute to allow Landorus to regain some HP lost from Substitute, but it's generally not too useful since Landorus won't be gaining back too much health due to the short length of the average Doubles match. The EV spread is used to outspeed neutral base 90s while granting maximum power. A spread with maximum Speed and a Jolly nature can be used to let Landorus better check Volcarona though. Hidden Power Ice and a Naive nature can be used to let Landorus take care of Landorus-T and opposing Landorus, but it usually appreciates another move in the 3rd slot more. If your team has issues with Brelooom, Hidden Power Flying can also be used to swiftly eliminate it.</p>

<p>Fake Out, Follow Me, or Rage Powder support provides opportunities to set up a Substitute. Togekiss is an excellent user of Follow Me that is also immune to Earthquake. Because Landorus is weak to common spread moves such as Surf and Blizzard, Wide Guard support can be useful to shield it from being KOed by them. Hitmontop, Conkeldurr, and Scrafty make for good partners as they can dispatch the Ice-types that threaten Landorus. Hitmontop and Conkeldurr also have Wide Guard, allowing them to further support Landorus. Hitmontop and Scrafty can use Fake Out to give Landorus free turns to wreak havoc as well. Because Landorus can easily be taken out by Ice-types, Pokemon that can threaten them such as Scizor make for excellent partners. Thunder Wave and Icy Wind support from Pokemon such as Thundurus and Cresselia can be useful to help Landorus outpace faster Pokemon such as Shaymin-S and Latios. Thundurus and Cresselia in particular are also immune to Earthquake, meaning that Landorus can use it without fear of hurting them. Pairing Landorus with Tyranitar is mandatory to activate Sand Force's Attack boost. Tyranitar is also great because it threatens Latios, Cresselia, and Ice-types such as Kyurem and Rotom-F. Because Landorus-T is such a great answer to Landorus, Pokemon that can eliminate it make for good partners. Defiant Pokemon such as Tornadus and Bisharp can deter it from switching in, but Bisharp takes super effective damage from Earthquake coming from both Landorus and Landorus-T, and having both Tornadus and Landorus out makes you extremely BlizzSpam weak. Latios and Rotom-W can both eliminate Landorus-T with their powerful STAB-boosted attacks. They also both have Levitate, making them great partners to Landorus.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A physical set with Choice Scarf can be used to let Landorus clean up late-game with Earthquake, but due to the abundance of Earthquake immune Pokemon as well as Landorus's common weaknesses, it can be difficult to use. A set with Gravity or Smack Down can be used to take out Pokemon such as Rotom-W, which would otherwise have nothing to fear from Landorus, but finding time to use either can be difficult and they come at the cost of a move with more utility. In addition, when using Gravity, Earthquake can now hit almost any of Landorus's potential partners, so you must either Protect or have a Pokemon with Telepathy out such as Musharna to avoid taking damage. Bulldoze can be a nice option to grant speed control, but it is significantly weaker than Earthquake and still hits Landorus's partner. Imprison can be nice to remove an opposing Pokemon's access to Protect and also renders Pokemon such as Excadrill and Landorus-T useless. Swords Dance can be useful because it makes Landorus's Attack skyrocket, but it can be difficult to find time to set it up. Rock Polish is also an option for a setup move for a late-game sweep, but it is tough to set up, and Landorus can still be taken out with priority.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Cresselia is an amazing counter to Landorus, taking little to no damage from any of its sets and being able to hit back hard with Icy Wind. Swift Swim Pokemon such as Kingdra and Ludicolo make for good checks as they can outspeed and easily KO with rain-boosted Water-type attacks. Common hail Pokemon such as Abomasnow, Rotom-F, and Kyurem are also great checks as they can take a hit and strike with a fully accurate Blizzard. However, Rotom-F and Kyurem must watch out for Stone Edge from the physical set and Focus Blast from the special set. Mamoswine can take Landorus out with an Ice Shard before it has a chance to hit with an attack of its own. If Mamoswine has Icicle Spear it can even get around Yache Berry and Substitute. Weavile can also use Ice Shard to decimate Landorus and naturally outspeeds it, so it could use Ice Punch too. Rotom-W is immune to one of Landorus's STABs, resists the other, and can strike back with its own Water-type attacks. Gyarados is also immune to Landorus's Ground-type STAB, has Intimidate to limit its offensive presence, and can deal heavy damage with Waterfall. Opposing Landorus make for good checks due to their good bulk and Ground-type immunity. Landorus-T makes for an even better check, as it has a Ground-type immunity, good bulk, and access to Intimidate to cripple physical Landorus sets. Both formes must watch out for a Hidden Power Ice from special Landorus though. Latios and Togekiss make for great checks to the special set, as they are immune to Earth Power and don't take very much from its other moves. Togekiss can even redirect Landorus's hits with Follow Me while a partner KOes it. Scrafty is a great check to physical Landorus, with access to Intimidate to neuter its offenses and Ice Punch to take it out. It loses to the special set though. Hitmontop also has Intimidate and can use Wide Guard to block Earthquake. However, Earthquake still does a lot of damage even after the Intimidate drop, and Hitmontop is taken out by the special set as well. Excadrill can outpace Landorus in sand and use Magnet Rise to give itself an immunity to its Ground-type STAB, and it resists most of the other moves Landorus commonly has.</p>