[Overview]

<p>From its massive base 145 Attack, Intimidate, and STAB Earthquake right down to its sprite and roar-like cry, Landorus-T fits the very definition of a beast. With these essential tools, it preys on common sandstorm teams or just about any team heavily reliant on physical attackers with its Fighting-type resistance and Ground- and Electric-type immunities, which grant Landorus-T ample opportunities to switch in and cast its intimidating glare on its opponents. The main problems with using Landorus-T are its Water- and Ice-type weaknesses and the fact that Earthquake hits your ally as well, which makes it difficult to build around. Nevertheless, Landorus-T is a remarkably well-rounded Pokemon whose faults mainly lie in its straightforward checks, and is quite capable of keeping many common Pokemon under its paw.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Rock Slide / Stone Edge
move 3: Superpower / U-turn
move 4: Protect
item: Focus Sash
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to be versatile by utilizing both its attacking prowess and its ability: Intimidate. Earthquake is, of course, Landorus-T's main attack, as it receives a STAB boost and does spread damage, though you have to be careful and use either Flying-types or Pokemon with Levitate, or use Protect with a grounded partner, so they don't feel Landorus-T's wrath as well. The choice between Rock Slide and Stone Edge is tricky, as Rock Slide is more suited to the early game pressure that Landorus-T provides and Stone Edge is better for immediate power that can net notable OHKOs on threats such as bulky Thundurus. U-turn is an unorthodox choice in Doubles, but dents Cresselia nicely and supplies Landorus-T with a decent venue of chip damage along with a potential free switch courtesy of its average Speed, defenses, and Focus Sash. Superpower is more straightforward, as it provides nice Fighting-type coverage against Pokemon such as Hydreigon and Kyurem. Protect is a staple on this set, mainly because Landorus-T needs to guard against Ice Shards that threaten to OHKO it and Fake Outs that threaten to break Landorus-T's Focus Sash.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is the main item option as it allows Landorus-T to survive both Draco Meteors and Ice Beams, but if you're planning on switching your Landorus-T in and out on resisted hits, you might want to consider Yache Berry. However, Yache Berry still won't save Landorus from STAB Ice-type moves, so you should run a bulkier EV spread when using it. 168 HP / 252 Atk / 88 Spe allows Landorus-T to survive Abomasnow's Blizzard and outspeed Adamant Breloom along with Tornadus after an Icy Wind, which is especially important if you're facing Defiant Tornadus. Another spread to consider is 88 HP / 252 Atk / 168 Spe with a Jolly nature, which outspeeds Jolly Breloom and neutral-natured Pokemon with base 80 Speed, such as Mamoswine and Chandelure, though Landorus-T probably won't survive as many STAB Blizzards. Other items such as a Rock or Ground Gem could work on this set, as they help Landorus-T nab OHKOs on Pokemon such as defensive Abomasnow and Tyranitar with a respective super effective move, although forgoing a defensive item means Landorus-T will be more reliant on Speed control and safe switching to stay afloat.</p>

<p>As with any Pokemon using Earthquake, it's important to have at least two Ground-type immunities. Cresselia and bulky Thundurus are two prime candidates for this role, as they both offer Speed control with Icy Wind and Thunder Wave respectively. Cresselia can also power up Landorus-T's Earthquake with Helping Hand, giving it enough power to OHKO common threats such as Metagross, Jirachi, and the aforementioned Tyranitar. Offensively, Latios can apply offensive pressure with Draco Meteor, though pairing it up with Landorus-T makes the duo rather susceptible to common Ice-type attacks such as Icy Wind and Blizzard.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Stone Edge / Rock Slide
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Superpower / Rock Slide / Explosion
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Normally, a Choice Scarf isn't a very desirable accessory in Doubles, but if you happen to have an ability like Landorus-T's Intimidate, switching often is something it's doing anyway. Earthquake is a given as Landorus-T's main STAB, as it can hit both of the opposition simultaneously at the cost of also hitting your ally. Stone Edge is preferred over Rock Slide on this set because it can nab OHKOs on threats that Landorus-T now outspeeds thanks to its Choice Scarf, such as Thundurus, Tornadus, and Shaymin-S. Rock Slide is still an option, as it provides spread damage and comes with a nifty 30% flinch rate. U-turn is the typical choice for the third slot, allowing it to switch out while doing damage to threats that otherwise give Landorus-T a lot of trouble, such as Cresselia. The final slot can be filled with a lot of options. Superpower is the most preferred, as it allows Landorus-T to deal heavier damage to threats such as Rotom-W and also OHKOes Bisharp and Choice Scarf Tyranitar, which Earthquake cannot consistently do. Rock Slide is an option if Stone Edge is used over it in the second slot, as it can be more useful than Stone Edge in some situations and is more reliable thanks to its higher accuracy. Finally, Explosion can be used, dealing massive damage to both opponents while providing a team member with a safe switch-in. However, it can be blocked by Protect and also hits your ally, so use it with caution.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Landorus-T doesn't have many options in terms of spreads. You could EV it to live a Dark Gem Sucker Punch off of a +1 Bisharp, but this takes a spread of 4 HP / 252 Atk / 228 Def / 24 Spe, which costs too much Speed for it to pay off in most cases, given that Bisharp isn't going to be around every match. A more consistent option is an alternative mixed spread of 252 Atk / 96 SpA / 160 Spe and a Naughty nature, which allows you to use Hidden Power Flying or Hidden Power Ice for coverage and work around problems that would normally cripple Choice Scarf Landorus-T, such as burns and opposing Intimidate users. With 96 Special Attack EVs, Landorus-T always 2HKOes 252 HP Hitmontop with Hidden Power Flying, while it allows Hidden Power Ice to always 2HKO the standard Yache Berry Garchomp and Yache Berry Landorus-T sets. Hidden Power Ice also OHKOes Salamence over half of the time, whereas Stone Edge can't due to Intimidate.</p>

<p>Since this set will get locked into Earthquake a lot, you will want several teammates that can avoid taking damage from it. Some particularly notable partners that accomplish this include Rotom-W, Latios, Cresselia, Togekiss, Rotom-F, and Hydreigon. Rotom-W can dispatch Flying-types that avoid damage from Earthquake and can also handle opposing Ground-types, such as Landorus-T and Mamoswine. Latios makes for a great offensive partner for Landorus-T, as it can spam Draco Meteor with less risk since Earthquake can dispatch Steel-types that resist Latios's attacks. Cresselia can be a helpful support ally, boosting Landorus-T's powerful attacks even further with Helping Hand, while Ice Beam can dispatch Flying-types that give Landorus-T trouble if it is locked into Earthquake. Togekiss is a great support partner, redirecting harmful attacks not named Blizzard or Surf. It can also boost Landorus-T's attacks with Helping Hand like Cresselia can. Rotom-F can be absolutely destructive alongside this set with some hail support, as the combination of Earthquake and Blizzard will tear through almost anything. Hydreigon works alongside Landorus-T like Latios does, but it can also use Dark Pulse to deal heavy damage to various Trick Room setters that can be a big issue for Landorus-T. There are a few other partners to consider that aren't immune to Earthquake. Most notably, Abomasnow can spam Blizzard alongside Landorus-T and also resists Earthquake, allowing the pair to dish out some serious damage when given the opportunity. Hitmontop can guard Landorus-T against harmful attacks such as Blizzard with Wide Guard and also provides Fake Out support, while taking out Ice-types that would give Landorus-T a lot of trouble. Finally, Volcarona can help this set, redirecting attacks such as Ice Beam with Rage Powder and taking out troublesome Ice-types and Cresselia with Heat Wave and Bug Buzz, respectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Landorus-T has a lot of options. Hidden Power Flying can be used to dispatch Breloom and 2HKO bulkier Fighting-types such as Hitmontop with some Special Attack investment. Hidden Power Ice can help against opposing Landorus-T and Dragon-types. Imprison can be used, as it prevents the opposition from using Earthquake, Rock Slide, and Protect, all of which tend to be fairly common. Swords Dance can be used, allowing Landorus-T to become a complete menace if given the opportunity to set up. Gravity is a unique option, guaranteeing that Stone Edge or Rock Slide will hit, while allowing you to destroy opponents such as Rotom-W with Earthquake. However, it also means you will hit common allies such as Cresselia and Thundurus with Earthquake as well, which can be a major drawback. Bulldoze can provide Landorus-T with its own Speed control, but be warned, it is really, really weak. Hammer Arm is an option over Superpower if you don't like losing attack power, or if for some reason you decide to use Landorus-T on a Trick Room team.</p>

<p>Landorus-T also has a few notable alternative item choices. Choice Band can be used to rack up some notable OHKOs on Bisharp, Tyranitar, and non-Shuca Berry Metagross. Ground Gem can also achieve these KOs without locking you into a move, but it can only do so once per game. Finally, Normal Gem can be used alongside Explosion, allowing you to decimate anything that doesn't resist the move.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Rain teams are one of the best ways to dispatch Landorus-T, as common Swift Swim sweepers such as Ludicolo and Kingdra can outspeed even the Choice Scarf set and proceed to OHKO. Ice-type attacks are also going to ruin Landorus-T's day; common Ice-types such as Abomasnow and Mamoswine can dispatch it assuming that Yache Berry is either not being run or has already been used. A special mention goes to the standard Choice Scarf Cloyster set, as it can break through Yache Berry and Focus Sash with Icicle Spear and can tank a Superpower off of Choice Scarf Landorus-T. Cresselia is able to force Landorus-T out, as its only option to hit Cresselia is U-turn, which results in Landorus-T leaving the field. Cresselia can also set up Trick Room. This leaves Landorus-T vulnerable to slower attackers, including Cresselia itself, which can take Landorus-T down with Ice Beam. Opposing Intimidate Pokemon, such as Hitmontop and opposing Landorus-T, can nerf the power of Landorus-T's attacks, leaving it open to a lot of attackers. Bulky Water-types such as Suicune, Rotom-W, and Politoed won't care about Landorus-T's attacks very much and can take it down with their Water-type attacks; Rotom-W in particular is a nuisance because it is immune to Landorus-T's Earthquake. Fast Dragon-type attackers, such as Latios and Hydreigon, are immune to Earthquake and can OHKO Landorus-T with their respective Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteors; just beware of Focus Sash, as a U-turn is going to do a lot of damage. Additionally, Kyurem-B and Kyurem can smack Landorus-T around with their STAB Ice-type attacks, but must be wary of Stone Edge and Superpower. Landorus and Breloom don't mind any of Landorus-T's attacks bar a Hidden Power Ice or Hidden Power Flying in Breloom's case, and can proceed to cripple Landorus-T with Hidden Power Ice or Spore, respectively. Finally, Defiant attackers, such as Tornadus and Bisharp, will become very powerful if they get hit by Intimidate and pressure Landorus-T into staying off of the field.</p>