[Overview]

<p>Lickilicky is not your standard pink blob. Unlike its support-based brethren, Lickilicky is looking for OHKOs—not stall. Lickilicky's unassuming face masks an Explosion rivaled in Base Power only by Genesect with an Attack boost from Download. Like most Normal-types, Lickilicky's movepool is both huge and diverse, containing quite a few coverage moves with high Base Power. Even though Lickilicky's Attack is far from stellar, these attacks enable it to overcome its middling offensive prowess. Cloud Nine allows Lickilicky to provide team support just by existing, negating some of the damage that weather-boosted attacks do to its teammates. Lickilicky also has solid bulk that often lets it live some extremely powerful attacks. However, Lickilicky's weakness to Fighting-type moves and low Speed that tends to become awkward outside of Trick Room keep it from being a top tier threat.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Attacker
move 1: Explosion
move 2: Power Whip
move 3: Fire Blast / Earthquake
move 4: Return / Protect
item: Life Orb
ability: Cloud Nine
nature: Brave
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Explosion is Lickilicky's claim to fame, allowing it to OHKO a good fraction of what it touches and maim everything else. When Trick Room is not up, having Lickilicky out pressures the opponent into either attacking it or using Protect, which can help a more vulnerable partner set up Trick Room. Power Whip's main purpose is to deal heavy damage to Tyranitar and Water-type Pokemon—some Politoed and Rotom-W can even be OHKOed with some luck if they don't invest Defense. Fire Blast allows Lickilicky to OHKO Scizor and has a good shot at doing the same to Ferrothorn with little investment in Special Defense. Because of Lickilicky's ability, this can even be done in rain, making the difficult job of dealing with these Pokemon much easier. Earthquake forgoes coverage against Scizor and Ferrothorn in exchange for a strong hit on Chandelure and an OHKO on Heatran without Shuca Berry. Return is a reliable STAB move for Lickilicky, but Protect can be used instead to stall for turns when Trick Room is not up and to evade priority moves and slower Pokemon otherwise.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Lickilicky's EV spread maximizes Attack while giving it the most optimal bulk with the EVs remaining. Conveniently, it also turns Latios's Draco Gem Draco Meteor into a 2HKO, letting Lickilicky live for one more crucial turn in a pinch. Lickilicky's Speed is minimized in order to ensure that it moves first in Trick Room. A spread of 96 HP / 252 Atk / 160 SpD dedicates more of its bulk to the special side, letting it take a few more special hits before its demise. Aqua Tail and Hammer Arm are both options in the third slot. The former allows Lickilicky to KO Fire-types without jeopardizing its teammates but hits Heatran with less oomph than Earthquake, while the latter hits Tyranitar and some Steel-types a harder than Earthquake and lowers Lickilicky's Speed even further.</p>

<p>On any team with Lickilicky, it is vital to include Pokemon that are immune to its Explosion, especially ones that can set up Trick Room. As such, Musharna and Ghost-types such as Jellicent and Chandelure are optimal teammates. Putting Protect on Lickilicky's teammates is also a good choice for the same reason. When using Fire Blast, Lickilicky fits well onto rain teams centered around Trick Room because of its ability to OHKO Ferrothorn and Scizor, which are usually difficult for such teams to remove. Pairing Lickilicky with Pokemon with Defiant makes switching in a Pokemon with Intimidate significantly less advantageous for its opponents, letting Lickilicky keep the power of its Explosion high; in Trick Room, Bisharp is a good option. A teammate that can use Imprison, such as Musharna, to block Protect also helps Lickilicky accomplish its explosive goals with greater ease.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lickilicky has a few oddball tricks hidden under its bib—Own Tempo, its other useful ability, is one of them. A teammate can continuously use Swagger on Lickilicky to boost its Attack, letting it KO even extremely bulky walls after a few boosts without having to resort to Explosion. If this combination is used, Fire Punch should be used over Fire Blast to take advantage of the boost to Attack. Normal Gem is usable to give Lickilicky's Explosion truly phenomenal power, but using it means giving up the boost that Life Orb grants to Lickilicky's other moves. Body Slam can be used in place of Return for its paralysis chance, but its effects become less desirable in Trick Room. Belly Drum can be used in tandem with Sitrus Berry, but such a set faces competition from the significantly stronger Snorlax. Swords Dance is a similar choice but does not require Lickilicky to damage itself. Helping Hand, Disable, Substitute, and Icy Wind are all viable moves but are difficult to fit onto Lickilicky's cramped set; Icy Wind also does not fit well on a Trick Room team.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Hitmontop is Lickilicky's greatest enemy, as even if its Close Combat does not OHKO without a Fighting Gem, Intimidate dampens the power of most of Lickilicky's moves. Using Explosion around it is also dangerous, as it can even use Wide Guard to ensure that it and its teammates do not faint. In general, Pokemon with Intimidate cause Lickilicky problems. Landorus-T is another commonly used example. When Trick Room is not up, Lickilicky becomes far worse at performing its job. Cresselia can reverse an active Trick Room and Chandelure can use Imprison to ensure it is never set up. Ghost-types make using Explosion significantly less rewarding, as they make it impossible for Lickilicky to KO more than one target; Gengar is particularly troublesome for Lickilicky to KO. Depending on what coverage move it runs, various Pokemon give Lickilicky trouble; without a super effective move, Heatran, Chandelure, Ferrothorn, Scizor, and Genesect all take little damage from Lickilicky's attacks. Of this group, Scizor even has a chance to OHKO with a Life Orb-boosted Superpower.</p>