[Overview]

<p>With a respectable base 90 Special Attack stat, great coverage, access to Fake Out,  and, most importantly, Swift Swim, it's no wonder that Ludicolo is everyone's favorite dancing pineapple. Ludicolo is one of the tier's better Swift Swim users, not only capable of dealing out constant damage with its solid STAB coverage, but also being able to annihilate Rotom-W and Gastrodon, two of rain's biggest counters.</p>

[SET]
name: Rain Attacker
move 1: Surf / Hydro Pump
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Fake Out / Ice Beam
move 4: Ice Beam / Protect
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Modest
evs: 180 HP / 252 SpA / 76 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is probably Ludicolo's best set; it allows Ludicolo to deliver quick and powerful hits under rain. Ludicolo's main weapon is Surf, which can take out most opponents Ludicolo might face; however, Hydro Pump deals more damage without the risk of potentially harming Ludicolo's partners with "friendly fire", albeit at the cost of accuracy. Giga Drain is a good secondary STAB move, providing Ludicolo with a way to hit Pokemon such as Rotom-W that resist Surf, and helping to keep Ludicolo healthy. Fake Out keeps momentum going and provides some support to Ludicolo's teammates. It's also essential for Ludicolo's survival, as it keeps Ludicolo's counters occupied while its teammate take them out. Ice Beam rounds out Ludicolo's already great coverage, allowing it to hit Dragon- and Grass-types super effectively. Protect is a slightly odd option on such an offensive Pokemon, but it helps keep Ludicolo alive while teammates take out its would-be counters. It also helps in stalling out precious turns of Tailwind and Trick Room that would take away Ludicolo's speed advantage. Finally, Life Orb is used to increase Ludicolo's damage output significantly.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs given optimize Ludicolo's attacking power, letting it deal as much damage as possible before your opponent has an opportunity to pull out a counter. 76 Speed EVs are all Ludicolo needs to outspeed maximum Speed Shaymin-S under rain. The remaining 180 EVs to go into HP, improving Ludicolo's chances against common threats such as Latios and Kyurem-B, which can destroy Ludicolo easily given the chance. Ludicolo may run 176 Speed EVs to outrun the uncommon but lethal Deoxys-A. Max EV investment into Special Attack and Speed with Timid Nature is a real option to ensure no surprise Choice Scarf Pokemon like Scarf Genesect or Scarf Terrakion would prematurely eliminate Ludicolo.</p>

<p>Ludicolo doesn't have many other options in terms of moves because its coverage is already so stellar. However, Focus Blast offers the necessary super effective coverage to inflict major damage to Ferrothorn, Abomasnow, Kyurem-B, all three of which would  otherwise shrug off Ludicolo's special offense. Scald could be used as a more reliable targeting STAB move. The chance of burn is also great for aiding teams which are weak to physical threats.</p>

<p>Politoed is the best teammate for Ludicolo, as it sets up rain and can increase Ludicolo's damage output with Helping Hand. Hitmontop is also noteworthy due to its ability to scare off other weather setters, such as Abomasnow and Tyranitar, as well as its ability to take out some counters to Ludicolo, such as Kyurem-B, with Close Combat. Hydreigon is a great wallbreaker to get rid of Kyurem-B, Cresselia, Dusknoir, Ferrothorn, and other walls hoping to end Ludicolo's sweep. Finally, Amoonguss, Jirachi, and Togekiss can direct attacks away from Ludicolo with Follow Me or Rage Powder, as most of Ludicolo's checks and counters can only harm it through targeting attacks. Of these, Amoonguss is usually the best option as it resists Ludicolo's Surfs, which can otherwise wear down Ludicolo's teammates quickly. Togekiss and Jirachi still comes in handy for tanking super effective Bug- and Flying-type moves, respectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Ludicolo has a very interesting movepool that is capable of surprising opponents. While somewhat gimmicky, Sunny Day can be used to give Ludicolo a place on sun teams, outspeeding normally faster Pokemon with Swift Swim in order to set up sun for its team. Teeter Dance is also an interesting option for support, especially in Doubles, where it can confuse both opponents by launching the fastest Teeter Dance in the game. A bulkier set could also be considered, taking advantage of Ludicolo's other ability, Rain Dish. When combined with Leftovers and Leech Seed, Ludicolo becomes great for rain stall. However, this set is usually outclassed by offensive sets which take out opposing Pokemon more efficiently. In terms of held items, Lum Berry is worth considering as it stops Thunder Wave from affecting Ludicolo too greatly. For example, Ludicolo can take a Thunder Wave from Thundurus, then set up a Substitute to prevent further status. A Sitrus Berry could help Ludicolo take another hit and avoid some 2HKOs, though a more offensive item is usually better. Finally, a Tanga Berry can catch opponents by surprise and let Ludicolo survive a hit from Genesect.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Anything that gets rid of rain are good choices for stopping Ludicolo, ridding it of its Rain support; Abomasnow is particularly difficult for Ludicolo to eliminate on its own as it removes Rain with Hail. Within Rain, Kingdra naturally outruns Ludicolo and can finish it off with powerful STAB Dragon-type moves. Toxicroak switches into Ludicolo with relative impunity thanks to its immunity to Ludicolo's Surf and resistances to Giga Drain. With the aid of a Choice Scarf, Genesect outspeeds Ludicolo even under Rain, and can decimate it with a Download-boosted U-turn or Bug Buzz.</p>

<p>Cresselia, Dusknoir, Ferrothorn, and any other bulky Pokemon not weak to Ludicolo's attacks can take hits from it and retaliate by ending its sweep, usually with Thunder Wave or Trick Room. Cresselia is also known for summoning Sun with Sunny Day. Kyurem and Kyurem-B are solid switch-ins to Ludicolo, as well, resisting both Ludicolo's STAB moves and is not weak to Ice Beam. Finally, Thundurus can cripple Ludicolo permanently with a Prankster Thunder Wave, but it must be wary of Ice Beam.</p>