[Overview]

<p>Manaphy's cute exterior hides one of the most powerful sweepers in the Doubles metagame. While it might seem like it's outclassed by Kingdra and Ludicolo in rain, it actually has several aspects that let it stand out over the Swift Swim users. Tail Glow boosts Manaphy's Special Attack to astronomical levels, allowing it to run straight through more offensive teams and punch huge holes in pretty much everything else. In addition, Manaphy has access to Hydration, meaning that not only does it get its STAB boosted in rain, but it becomes darn near impossible to take down with Rest. It doesn't even really need rain though, as it generally hits things incredibly hard regardless of weather, with the exception of sun. It even has nice bulk, letting it take a surprising number of hits.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, Manaphy is not without its shortcomings. It is outsped by almost all of the Pokemon that threaten it, such as Latios and Thundurus, and has a severe case of four-moveslot syndrome, since it often lacks enough room for everything it needs to run. Manaphy also has an issue that many other Pokemon do not: it's surprisingly difficult to build a team around. With its main offensive move being a ridiculously strong Surf, Manaphy's pool of potential partners is heavily restricted, as otherwise viable choices will hate Surf just as much as its opponents. Nonetheless, Manaphy is one of the most terrifying Pokemon to run up against, especially in rain, and priority should always be given to its removal. Oh, did I mention it's adorable?</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Tail Glow
move 1: Tail Glow
move 2: Surf / Scald
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Protect / Rest
item : Wacan Berry / Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Manaphy's trademark set in Doubles. With Tail Glow boosting its Special Attack three stages, Manaphy becomes absolutely deadly. This set is pretty straightforward, honestly. Set up when there's an opening late-game and just tear through the opponent. Surf will hit both opponents and maximizes sweeping potential at the cost of hitting a teammate, while Scald hits one opponent slightly harder and has a fair shot to burn the opponent. Ice Beam is for all of those pesky Dragon- and Grass-types that resist Surf. The last slot is a tossup between Protect and Rest. The former grants a key immunity to just about anything for a single turn, as if Manaphy is KOed, then all of its hard work will go to waste. The latter heals Manaphy back to full health and works great with Hydration in rain. Manaphy can choose between either Wacan Berry to take a stray Thunderbolt or Life Orb to pack even more power; however, if Life Orb is used, it is highly recommended to use Rest as well, as the item's recoil makes Manaphy susceptible to faster attacks like Latios's Draco Meteor and Breloom's Mach Punch.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Blizzard is an alternative to Ice Beam that hits two opponents, and while its accuracy in neutral weather can be worrying, Manaphy is a pretty good addition to hail teams. Energy Ball can go in either of the last two slots as well, but Ice Beam gets generally better coverage, so Energy Ball should only be used if one has huge problems with bulky Water-types such as Gastrodon, Politoed, and Suicune.</p>

<p>This set is best brought out late-game, when Manaphy can simply tear through even its normal checks with some prior damage. It really isn't as simple as finding a setup opportunity, unfortunately, as Manaphy's stats are only a bit above average and its typing leaves it with fairly common weaknesses in Electric and Grass. Even when Manaphy gets going, it still needs support to keep going, or it could miss a crucial KO and get destroyed or set up on in return. Outside of Politoed, which brings permanent rain to power up Surf and activate Hydration, Musharna and Parasect are possibly the two best teammates Manaphy could ever ask for to provide support. Musharna can prevent Trick Room with Imprison and power up Surf with Helping Hand while taking no damage from it due to Telepathy. Parasect might not be able to augment Manaphy's power like that, but Rage Powder and Spore are invaluable to Manaphy, and Manaphy heals Parasect with Surf due to Dry Skin. Parasect can also easily tank Grass- and Electric-type attacks aimed at Manaphy with Rage Powder. Manaphy appreciates partners that can use moves such as Thunder Wave and Tailwind to help it move before the opponent. Gastrodon is also an option if you wish to overwhelm your opponent by spamming powerful spread moves. Hitmontop is a valuable partner as well, if only for its ability to destroy Ferrothorn with Close Combat.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive Tail Glow
move 1: Tail Glow
move 2: Scald / Surf
move 3: Energy Ball / Ice Beam
move 4: Rest / Protect
item : Wacan Berry / Sitrus Berry
nature: Modest
evs: 252 HP / 136 SpA / 12 SpD / 108 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is well-suited for punching holes in the opponent to allow for another Pokemon to sweep. To ensure that Manaphy can pull off such a strategy, the set is constructed a bit differently than sets more focused on outright sweeping with Manaphy. In fact, Tail Glow is really the only thing this set has in common with them. Scald and Energy Ball are the preferred offensive moves on this set for a couple of reasons. The lack of Surf makes Manaphy easier to either build around or just tack onto the end of a team, and Energy Ball lures out and pummels bulky Water-types like Gastrodon, paving the way for a sweeper like Kingdra to pick up the pieces. However, Surf is still an option over Scald, as hitting both opponents can come in handy. Ice Beam can also be used over Energy Ball, as it can hit Grass- and Dragon-types that resist Manaphy's STAB attacks for heavy damage. Rest capitalizes on this set's bulk in tandem with rain, allowing Manaphy to heal any damage taken and then be cured of its sleep by Hydration at the end of the turn. Protect is an option over Rest, as it enables Manaphy to guard itself against potentially fatal attacks while its ally takes out the source of them.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Wacan Berry is the preferred item for this set, as it lets Manaphy get past would-be checks such as Thundurus and Thundurus-T. However, Sitrus Berry is also an option, giving Manaphy some extra longevity to help it set up with less difficulty. With the given spread Manaphy can outspeed positive-natured Pokemon with base 70 Speed, such as Breloom. The given Special Attack investment allows for a +3 Scald to OHKO both Breloom and even the bulkiest Thundurus sets in the rain. The remaining EVs are dumped into HP in order for Manaphy to sponge as many hits as possible, with a few thrown into Special Defense so that Manaphy can survive a Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor off of Timid Latios.</p>

<p>Due to the lack of Surf, this set has much more freedom for teammates than it would otherwise. First and foremost, Politoed is almost a required teammate for this set as it needs Drizzle support in order to make the most of its bulk with Rest and boost the power of its STAB attacks. This set is great at luring out bulky Water-types and decimating them with Energy Ball, so it works nicely alongside Pokemon that are countered by bulky Water-types and function efficiently in rain, such as Kingdra and Scizor. Assuming you don't run Ice Beam, this set will have a difficult time getting around Dragon-types. As such, teammates that can dispose of Dragon-types, such as Weavile, Mamoswine, and Kingdra, are much appreciated. Cresselia also makes for a helpful teammate, as it can make Manaphy even more threatening by supporting it with Icy Wind and Helping Hand. Finally, Amoonguss and Parasect make for good teammates, as even with its bulk this set appreciates Rage Powder support, which pressures the opponent to avoid double-targeting Manaphy. Amoonguss is the preferred partner unless you are running Surf in most cases, as it has higher bulk and an overall better Grass / Poison typing.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Manaphy lacks very many useful options, as most coverage attacks are outclassed by the sheer power of its STAB attacks in rain. Psychic is an option for taking out Toxicroak, but it achieves nothing else and a +3 Ice Beam already OHKOes Toxicroak most of the time. Blizzard can be used alongside hail, as it is a powerful spread attack that works great in tandem with Manaphy's STAB options. Note that Rest no longer remains an option if using hail support, however. Calm Mind is an option over Tail Glow on the defensive Tail Glow set, as after a few Special Defense boosts Manaphy cannot be broken through by even the strongest attackers such as Rotom-W and Ludicolo and can easily heal off damage using Rest. If this set is used, an alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA and a Bold nature would be preferred, maximizing Manaphy's physical bulk so that it is nigh indestructible after a few Calm Mind boosts. Acid Armor is an option to use alongside Calm Mind, making Manaphy virtually unbreakable bar a critical hit, but this would leave Manaphy without coverage and make it incredibly weak to Taunt. You can run an all-out attacking set with Surf, Ice Beam, and Energy Ball, but Ludicolo presents stiff competition for such a set. Heart Swap allows Manaphy to pass Tail Glow boosts to its partners, which can be very useful, especially if they do not have access to Psych Up. Manaphy struggles to find room for such an option on a set, however. Manaphy has access to both Light Screen and Reflect, as well as many other support options including Helping Hand and Safeguard. However, Manaphy is generally better off taking advantage of Tail Glow and doesn't have the room in its crowded four moveslots to make use of these options. Finally, Manaphy can use Choices Specs, allowing it to hit hard without the need to use Tail Glow, but its attacks are significantly weaker at +1 than at +3.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Faster Electric-types, such as Thundurus and Thundurus-T, present a big threat to Manaphy. However, Electric-types need to be wary of Wacan Berry, as at +3 Manaphy can easily OHKO them. Dragon-types such as Latios, Kyurem, Kyurem-B, and Kingdra are also good checks, though many must also be wary of Ice Beam. Kyurem-B in particular is a great check, as a Life Orb-boosted Fusion Bolt has a chance to OHKO Manaphy, who can do little in return other than hope for a Scald burn. Choice Scarf users, especially Genesect, present Manaphy with similar problems so long as they can KO. Bulky Water-types such as Rotom-W and Jellicent threaten Manaphy as well, as they resist its STAB moves and Ice Beam. Rotom-W in particular can be very troubling, as it packs a super effective STAB attack. Jellicent also is immune to Surf and is able to set up Trick Room and chip away at Manaphy's health should it lack Rest. Most bulky Water-types must be wary of a Tail Glow-boosted Energy Ball, however.</p>

<p>Grass-types neutral to Ice Beam, such as Ferrothorn and Ludicolo, can smack Manaphy around with their STAB attacks while they take very little damage from Manaphy's attacks. Shaymin-S is also an excellent check granted it gets a safe switch-in, as it can OHKO Manaphy with a Life Orb-boosted Seed Flare. Abomasnow is a solid answer as well, as it can weaken Manaphy's Water-type STAB attacks thanks to Snow Warning, can tank an Ice Beam even if Manaphy is at +3 from Tail Glow, and can strike back with Wood Hammer or Giga Drain. Common Prankster users can be a nuisance; for example, Whimsicott and Thundurus can prevent Manaphy from setting up or sweeping thanks to priority Taunt and Encore, respectively. Finally, Sunny Day and Drought can put a stop to Manaphy's sweep, as they will make its STAB attacks incredibly lacking in power, even at +3.</p>