[Overview]

<p>Metagross is an excellent Pokemon and is one of the best physical attackers in Doubles. Thanks to its high Attack stat, it has no problem hitting most of the tier for great damage. If that isn't enough to entice you, Clear Body allows Metagross to avoid stat drops from common things such as Icy Wind and Intimidate, allowing it to distinguish itself from other physical attackers such as Scizor. Metagross's typing also grants it many useful resistances against moves such as Latios's Draco Meteor and Abomasnow's Blizzard, and this combined with its good bulk means that it has no trouble switching in and sponging hits. Unfortunately for Metagross, its middling Speed leaves it outsped by many common Pokemon threats such as Heatran and Rotom-W. In addition, it has difficulty handling common bulky Water-types such as Jellicent, Rotom-W and Gastrodon, all of whom resist its Steel-type STAB and can cripple Metagross with Will-O-Wisps or Scalds. When compared though, Metagross's positives far outweigh its negatives, and it should always be considered for a teamslot.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Meteor Mash
move 2: Bullet Punch
move 3: Zen Headbutt / Ice Punch / Earthquake
move 4: Protect
item: Occa Berry / Steel Gem
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Metagross is able to both hit hard and capitalize on its good bulk and typing to become an effective tank in the Doubles metagame. Meteor Mash is Metagross's main STAB attack and is capable of dealing a lot of damage due to its high Base Power. In addition, its chance of granting an Attack boost can be useful to give it even more of an offensive punch. Bullet Punch is the other STAB attack, and it serves to circumvent Metagross's lackluster Speed as well as pick off weakened Pokemon. Zen Headbutt is a great option in the third slot, as it provides a nice secondary STAB option, is able to maul common Fighting-types such as Hitmontop, and gives Metagross a way to hit bulky Water-types such as Gastrodon and Rotom-W who otherwise have little to fear from Metagross. In addition, its chance to flinch can also be very useful in a pinch. Ice Punch is another option and is useful for swiftly eliminating Flying- and Dragon-types with a super effective coverage move. Clear Body makes these options even better because it can strike Landorus-T and Hitmontop without having to worry about Intimidate. Earthquake is a good way to catch opposing Steel-types such as Heatran and opposing Metagross, but it lacks a STAB boost and will also hit your partner, which can be tricky to play around.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Occa Berry allows Metagross to live through Fire-type hits that would otherwise KO it. However, one must be aware of more powerful Fire-type attacks such as a Fire Gem-boosted Overheat from Volcarona or Chandelure as they can still OHKO Metagross even with Occa Berry. Steel Gem is another great option to give a one-time boost to Meteor Mash when needed. Shuca Berry is an option to let Metagross better handle Ground-type attacks, accomplishing things such as taking a Landorus-T's Earthquake and 2HKOing back with a combination of Ice Punch and Bullet Punch. However, its other options are generally more useful. Lum Berry can also be a nice choice, which lets Metagross cure pesky statuses such as burns that would otherwise render it useless. In addition, Lum Berry can be used with a Swagger user to grant a free +2 Attack boost that can't be removed by Intimidate. Hammer Arm can be used to hit Steel-types without having to resort to Earthquake, but it hits most of the common Steel-types in the tier neutrally and its Speed drop is undesirable. Psychic Gem is a useful option as it gives Zen Headbutt enough power to OHKO Amoonguss as well as some bulkier Fighting-types. An EV spread of 68 HP / 252 Atk / 188 Spe can be used to outspeed Garchomp after an Icy Wind, but the loss of bulk compared to the main spread is noticeable. 60 EVs in Speed allows Metagross to outrun and OHKO uninvested Heatran.</p>

<p> Pokemon such as Togekiss, Cresselia, and Zapdos make for great partners to this set as they can provide it with Speed control to help patch up its underwhelming Speed. Tailwind is particularly useful as 4 Speed EVs and Tailwind support allows Metagross to outspeed Tornadus. Zapdos is an especially great partner, as it can provide Tailwind support and also eliminate bulky Water-types that hassle Metagross. Trick Room support from Pokemon such as Cresselia and Reuniclus can also be nice since Metagross is fairly slow. If this is the case, Hammer Arm is a great option in the third slot due to the Speed drop it provides, which effectively increases Metagross's Speed under Trick Room. Other physical attackers such as Tyranitar make for good partners as they appreciate Metagross's ability to take out common Intimidate Pokemon such as Landorus-T and Hitmontop. Pokemon such as Breloom and Rotom-W make for great partners as well since they have no trouble getting rid of bulky Water-types that trouble Metagross. In addition, the aforementioned Pokemon can also handle Earthquake users such as Excadrill who can threaten Metagross. Rain support from Politoed can be appreciated as well since it negates Metagross's Fire-type weakness.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Meteor Mash
move 2: Ice Punch
move 3: Zen Headbutt / Earthquake
move 4: Trick
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a Choice Scarf, Metagross can effectively patch up its poor Speed and eliminate common Pokemon such as Garchomp, Shaymin-S, and Terrakion. The Speed boost allows Metagross to outspeed Shaymin-S and outpace the majority of Pokemon in the tier. This can be useful to swiftly KO Pokemon that stay in expecting to outspeed and damage Metagross. Meteor Mash is the main STAB attack on this set, boasting a high Base Power and a useful chance to grant an Attack boost. Ice Punch allows Metagross to eliminate common Pokemon such as Shaymin-S, Landorus-T, and Garchomp. Zen Headbutt is a good option for a secondary STAB attack, as Steel-type STAB has pitiful coverage. Earthquake is also an option to hit Pokemon such as Heatran, but being locked into Earthquake in a tier filled with Flying-types and Levitators can often backfire. Trick is a great option in the last slot to give Metagross a way to deal with bulkier Pokemon such as Jellicent and Cresselia, neutering their effectiveness with a Choice item.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Explosion can be a cool option to net some KOs on unsuspecting Pokemon, but it can constrain your teambuilding as it hits your partner as well as your opponent. Other physical attackers such as Tyranitar and Breloom appreciate Metagross's ability to dispatch common Intimidate Pokemon such as Landorus-T, Salamence, and Hitmontop. Slower teams appreciate this set because it grants them more speed than they would have otherwise, giving them a good check to fast Pokemon such as Terrakion and Latios. Pokemon such as Breloom and Rotom-W make for good partners to Metagross as they can KO bulky Water-types that are a thorn in Metagross's side. Rain support can be useful to help mitigate Metagross's Fire-type weakness.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Choice Band can be used, but being locked into moves with Metagross's low Speed can be undesirable. An Explosion set with Normal Gem is an interesting option to surprise an opponent with a huge amount of damage, but it forces you to Protect or run a Ghost-type in order to avoid dealing huge chunks of damage to your own Pokemon. Gravity can be nice to support the team and grant Metagross's STAB attacks perfect accuracy, but it loses access to an additional attacking move, and it makes the rest of the team weaker to Earthquake users such as Excadrill. Bulldoze can be a decent option to grant Speed control, but it hits your partner and is very weak. Magnet Rise can be useful to grant Metagross a Ground-type immunity, giving it nothing to fear from Pokemon such as Excadrill and Landorus. However, Magnet Rise isn't too useful otherwise, as it can be difficult to set up due to Metagross's low Speed, and comes at the cost of one of its attacking options.</p>

<p>Light Screen can be a cool option to allow Metagross and its teammates to better handle special attacks. Metagross can make a good supporter of Rain teams with Rain Dance, as it can take on Tyranitar and Abomasnow and change weather. A set with Agility or Rock Polish can make Metagross function as a sweeper, but it can be hard to set up, and due to Metagross's weak offensive coverage it will have a difficult time sweeping even after nabbing a boost. A set with Gyro Ball, Trick, and Iron Ball can be an option with Trick Room support to give Metagross a high-powered STAB attack while crippling an opposing Pokemon at the same time by Tricking them an Iron Ball. ThunderPunch gives Metagross an option to hit bulky Water-types such as Jellicent and Gyarados, but its other moves tend to have more utility. Psych Up can be cool to copy stat boosts from Pokemon such as Dragon Dance Gyarados, but it is very situational. Substitute can be nice to protect Metagross from powerful attacks and status moves that can cripple it, but it's generally too slow to make use of it effectively. Rock Slide is a nice option to hit Flying-types and Volcarona as well as granting Metagross a spread move, but it's not very strong due to the lack of a STAB boost and the spread damage reduction. Icy Wind can be used to grant Speed control for the rest of your team, but it is generally better left to Pokemon such as Cresselia and Jirachi. Swagger can also be used to pose a nuisance to special attackers as well as grant boosts to physical attackers with Lum Berry, but it is not very reliable.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Water-types such as Rotom-W, Jellicent, Politoed, Suicune, and Gastrodon make for good counters to Metagross as they resist its main STAB attack and can heal off the damage, while hitting back hard with their own attacks, and cripple Metagross with burns from Will-O-Wisp and Scald. Fire-types such as Ninetales, Volcarona, Heatran, Chadelure, and Victini also make for great checks since they resist Metagross's Steel-type STAB and can melt it with powerful, super effective attacks. Victini, Volcarona, and Heatran get special mentions; Victini can resist both of Metagross's STABs, while Volcarona and Heatran are able to set up on Metagross with Quiver Dance and Substitute, respectively. However, all must be wary of Metagross with Earthquake. Ground-types such as Garchomp, Landorus, and Excadrill can outspeed Metagross and deal large chunks of damage with their STAB Earthquakes. However, Garchomp and Landorus must watch out for Choice Scarf sets that can outspeed and OHKO them. Opposing Steel-types such as Scizor, Bisharp, and Heatran have little issue with Metagross sets that lack Earthquake and Hammer Arm, as they resist all of its other commonly carried moves and can hit back hard. Zapdos and Thundurus resist Metagross's Steel-type attacks and can also hit back hard with Thunderbolt. In addition, Zapdos has Heat Wave to hit Metagross super effectively.</p>