[Overview]

<p>Rhyperior is known for an amazing Attack stat, great Defense, and an absolute rubbish Special Defense stat. In the Doubles metagame, Rhyperior performs in a similar style as it would in any singles tier: hit as hard as it can while avoiding any special attack. Rhyperior is one of the few Pokemon that can abuse dual STAB spread moves effectively, but is reliant on Trick Room to do so. Poor typing that is weak to common spread moves paired with the very low Special Defense stat and Speed makes Rhyperior a Pokemon that is very reliant on Trick Room to succeed. Once in Trick Room though, Rhyperior can deal major damage to both opponents with very little effort.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Attacker
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Rock Slide / Stone Edge
move 3: Megahorn
move 4: Protect
item: Ground Gem / Rock Gem
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Brave
EVs: 88 HP / 252 Atk / 168 SpD
IVs: 0 speed

[Set Comments]

<p>Rhyperior has been blessed with great offensive typing and access to the two spread moves to abuse its STAB. Earthquake and Rock Slide are the main attacks on this set as both will allow Rhyperior to hit almost everything for heavy damage. Stone Edge can be used in place of Rock Slide so Rhyperior is not Wide Guard bait, though it has worse accuracy and only hits a single opponent. Megahorn is the final offensive move used on the set. Megahorn will allow Rhyperior to hit Psychic- and Grass-types such as Breloom, Cresselia, Musharna, Bronzong, and Virizion harder then either of its STABs would. Protect rounds out the set, as it allows Rhyperior to guard against Special Attacks that would otherwise KO it.</p>


[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Being such a slow Pokemon, Rhyperior is very reliant on Trick Room, and so Pokemon such as Cresselia, Chandelure, and Dusclops all make great teammates. One Trick Room setter that Rhyperior synergizes very well with is Jellicent. Mental Herb Jellicent, which is immune to Fake Out, will be able to get Trick Room up most, if not all the time thanks to Rhyperior luring away Electric-Type attacks with its Lightningrod ability. Being weak to common spread moves such as Surf, Muddy Water, and Blizzard, Rhyperior needs a teammate to patch up this weakness. Pokemon such as Gastrodon, Rotom-W, and Cresselia don't take much damage from any, and can handle Intimidate Pokemon at the same time, something else that Rhyperior doesn't like. Amoonguss makes for a good teammate thanks to the move Rage Powder, which will redirect any attacks Rhyperior doesn't like. Amoonguss can also put things to sleep. Tornadus, Thundurus, Togekiss, and other Pokemon with Flying-type STAB make for good teammates as well since they can cover Rhyperior's weakness to Grass-types as well as avoiding Earthquake. Lastly, the given EV spread allows Rhyperior to avoid a 2HKO by Modest Expert Belt-boosted Ice Beam from Cresselia 98% of the time while in sand or using its alternative ability, Solid Rock.</p>

<p>Though Rhyperior has a lackluster Special Defense stat, there are ways to make up for it. A Rindo Berry reduces to damage taken from super effective Grass attacks while Tyranitar or Hippowdon can be used to raise its Special Defense while in sand. Bug Gem will allow Rhyperior to hit Psychic-type Pokemon harder.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Rhyperior evolves from a generation one Pokemon, and because of this has an extremely large movepool. Moves like Aqua Tail, Fire Punch, and Ice Punch can be used to round out coverage, while Rock Blast and Drill Run can be used as alternative STAB moves. Drill Run hits a single target harder then Earthquake while Rock Blast will allow Rhyperior to break Substitutes and Focus Sashes. Brick Break and Hammer Arm can be used for Fighting-type attacks. Brick Break will get rid of opposing screens while Hammer Arm will slow Rhyperior down and make it threatening to opposing Trick Room teams. Rhyperior also has two different ways to boost its own Attack, one being Swords Dance and the other Choice Band. Choice Band will restrict you to a single move, and Swords Dance is hard to pull off with Rhyperior. Not only can Rhyperior be a fearsome attacker, it can support its team as well. Sunny Day, Rain Dance, and Smack Down are all interesting options for Rhyperior to run. Sunny Day and Rain Dance will allow it to support its team by providing surprise weather while Smack Down can be used to ground opponents and make them vulnerable to Earthquake when they otherwise wouldn't be. The last thing worth mentioning is that Rhyperior gets access to the moves Counter and Avalanche. These paired with its relatively high physical bulk can net a few surprise KOs if the situation is right. Solid Rock is another ability that Rhyperior can use as it will help Rhyperior tank super effective hits better. The ability reduces the damage taken from super effective hits to 3/4 of the normal, which helps Rhyperior live longer in battle. Finally, an alternate EV spread that includes 244 Speed EVs as well as a positive nature will allowed you to outrun base 111s while Tailwind is up. A notable target for this set is Thundurus, which works further because Lightningrod will protect Rhyperior's teammates from Thunder Wave.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>A weakness to common spread moves and almost any special attack is one of Rhyperior's biggest problems in the Doubles metagame, as all Water- and Ice-Type Pokemon directly threaten it with powerful special attacks. Pokemon that are faster and have a way to OHKO Rhyperior are also to be accounted for. Pokemon such as Latios, Breloom, Chandelure, Shaymin-S, Landorus, and Gem-boosted Metagross can all one-shot Rhyperior before it can even attack.</p>

<p> Though Rhyperior hits extremely hard, it can be burned by bulkier Ghost Pokemon such as Dusclops, Cofagrigus, Dusknoir, and Sabeleye, which makes Rhyperior generally useless in battle. Intimidate Pokemon such as Landorus, Hitmontop, and Scrafty won't take much from its attacks while lowering its attack at the same time. Ferrothorn and Bronzong won't take much from any attack Rhyperior can throw at them. Finally, Rhyperior is reliant on Trick Room, which means when not in it, its not performing as well as it could. Pokemon that can stop Trick Room from getting up can indirectly be considered a counter to Rhyperior.</p>