[OVERVIEW]

<p>As the only Pokemon that was unanimously banned from OU, it should be no surprise that Shaymin-S is a threat to prepare for in Doubles. Thanks to its high Speed, Shaymin-S is able to outspeed a large number of important threats such as Darkrai, Terrakion, Garchomp, and Tornadus, as well as various Choice Scarf users such as Tyranitar and Abomasnow. Shaymin-S also has the ability Serene Grace, which gives its two main STAB moves, Seed Flare and Air Slash, an 80% chance to lower the foe's Special Defense and a 60% chance to flinch, respectively. Shaymin's Grass / Flying typing makes it an excellent check to common Pokemon such as Hitmontop, Gastrodon, Rotom-W, and Breloom. Unlike several other powerhouses, such as Hydreigon and Latios, Shaymin-S's main STAB move, Seed Flare, eases prediction due to its high chance of a Special Defense drop. Shaymin can also eliminate common Pokemon with the ability Intimidate, such as Hitmontop, which can aid several physical attackers.

<p>Shaymin-S is not without its faults, however. Despite its typing giving it resistances to the common Water- and Fighting-type moves, it also plagues it with weaknesses to Rock-, Ice-, and Fire-type moves, three common attacking types in Doubles, and will most likely be OHKOed by these moves due to its subpar bulk. Furthermore, Shaymin-S struggles to OHKO anything that isn't weak to its moves without a flinch from Air Slash or a Special Defense drop from Seed Flare. Despite these setbacks, Shaymin-S will make an amazing addition to any Doubles team in need of check to Water- and Fighting-types; just make sure to work around its Ice- and Rock-type weaknesses.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Air Slash
move 2: Seed Flare
move 3: Earth Power / Hidden Power Ice / Substitute
move 4: Protect
item: Life Orb / Yache Berry
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Shaymin-S is able to support its team by removing threats such as Gastrodon and Hitmontop. Air Slash functions as Shaymin-S's main STAB move thanks to its amazing coverage in Doubles as well as its 60% chance to flinch, which can give free turns to both Shaymin-S and its partner. Seed Flare is Shaymin-S's secondary STAB move, OHKOing all but the most specially defensive Gastrodon through its Rindo Berry and can help several of Shaymin-S's teammates achieve more OHKOs thanks to its 80% chance to lower the foe's Special Defense. Earth Power allows Shaymin-S to hit bulky Fire- and Steel-types such as Metagross and Heatran for decent damage. Hidden Power Ice is an equally effective option, as it can hit several of Shaymin-S's counters, such as Thundurus, Hydreigon, and Tornadus for a great amount of damage. If these coverage moves aren't your cup of tea, then Substitute can be used to allow Shaymin-S survive a potentially fatal hit or dodge Thundurus's crippling Thunder Wave and makes it incredibly annoying when combined with Air Slash. Protect allows Shaymin-S to scout what its foe is doing, as well as protect it from spread moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Life Orb is the recommended item for this set to increase Shaymin-S's damage output as well as OHKO standard Hitmontop after one turn of sandstorm damage. However, Yache Berry is still useful for taking priority Ice Shard and Hidden Power Ice. A Charti Berry or Focus Sash can be used to survive various attacks, but the Yache Berry is more useful for surviving weaker Ice-type moves. Shaymin-S can also use a Grass Gem to have a decent chance to OHKO Tyranitar, but this item is not useful in any other situation. Tailwind is a viable option on this set, as Shaymin-S has access to one of the fastest non-Prankster Tailwinds in the game. However, this is better left to dedicated Tailwind users, such as Togekiss and Tornadus.</p>

<p>Thundurus is Shaymin-S's worst nightmare, as it resists both of Shaymin-S's main STAB moves and can either neuter Shaymin-S with Thunder Wave or deal a tremendous amount of damage with Hidden Power Ice, so packing a counter to it such as Choice Scarf Mamoswine is recommended. While not required, Thunder Wave support is extremely useful, as it increases the chance of the foe doing nothing when combined with Air Slash. Dark-types such as Tyranitar, Bisharp, and Hydreigon are very good partners, as they can all heavily damage Pokemon that give Shaymin-S trouble, such as Cresselia and Thundurus. Heatran and Kingdra are able to to defeat the Steel- and Fire-types that can easily wall Shaymin-S. Volcarona and Jirachi are also solid partners for this set, as the former can dismantle Latios, Latias, and Hydreigon with Bug Buzz as well as Steel-types and Thundurus with a Fire Gem-boosted Overheat, while the latter can redirect the threatening Ice- and Rock-type moves. Despite overlapping your team's Ice weakness, Ground-types such as Landorus-T, Garchomp, and Excadrill are excellent partners, as they can defeat the Fire- and Steel-types that give Shaymin-S trouble. In return, Shaymin-S can defeat the Water- and Fighting-types, such as Breloom and Gastrodon, that give those Pokemon trouble. Shaymin's typing also lets them use Earthquake with no repercussions.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Shaymin-S lacks many other options due to its mediocre movepool. Shaymin-S can use Healing Wish in conjunction with a Focus Sash to attack once or twice and heal a damaged teammate. However, Shaymin-S's average bulk means that it may not always pull off this tactic, despite its amazing Speed. Shaymin-S can use a Choice Scarf to a great effect, as this allows it to outspeed opposing Choice Scarf users such as Genesect as well as every Swift Swimmer up to Timid Kingdra. Shaymin-S also has several support moves such as Safeguard, Worry Seed, and Leech Seed, but this is better left to Whimsicott, which can immediately use these moves due to Prankster. Finally, Shaymin-S can use Leaf Storm to have a higher chance to OHKO Tyranitar, but it is inferior to Seed Flare in nearly every other situation.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Despite Shaymin-S's high Speed and Special Attack, its limited coverage makes it relatively easy to counter. As previously mentioned, Thundurus is Shaymin-S's greatest counter, as it can take one Hidden Power Ice and either cripple it with Thunder Wave or deal a large amount of damage with its own Hidden Power Ice. Zapdos and Thundurus-T can do similar jobs, but both lack the ability to immediately cripple Shaymin-S with a Prankster Thunder Wave. Rotom-H also makes a solid counter to Shaymin-S, as it resists everything in Shaymin-S's arsenal and can OHKO it with a Fire Gem-boosted Overheat. Cresselia is able to take two Life Orb-boosted Seed Flares from Shaymin-S and either cripple it with Thunder Wave or deal an enormous amount of damage with Icy Wind. Cresselia dislikes the Special Defense drops from Seed Flare and flinches from Air Slash, however. Bulky Dragon-types such as Kyurem-B, Hydreigon, and Latios are able to take one super effective Hidden Power Ice, or in Kyurem-B's case, Air Slash, and OHKO with their respective STAB attacks. Bulky Fire-types such as Chandelure, Heatran, and Victini aren't fazed by anything Shaymin-S throws at them apart from a Life Orb-boosted Earth Power and can OHKO in return with their respective Fire STAB. Steel-types such as Bisharp, Metagross, and Jirachi, as well as bulky Flying-types such as Tornadus and Togekiss, can function as solid checks to Shaymin-S, taking a hit and retaliating with their powerful STAB moves. Bisharp and Tornadus even benefit from Seed Flare's Special Defense drop due to Defiant, while Metagross is unaffected by it due to Clear Body. If you happen to lack any defensive answers to Shaymin-S, then revenge killing it is always an option. Weavile and Mamoswine can both bypass Shaymin-S's amazing Speed with a 4x super effective Ice Shard, while Choice Scarf users such as Genesect, Kyurem-B, Kyurem, and Cloyster can revenge kill Shaymin-S with an Ice move, even if it is carrying a Yache Berry. Pokemon with the Swift Swim ability, such as Ludicolo and Kingdra, can also revenge kill Shaymin-S with their boosted Speed in the rain. In the sand, Excadrill is a solid check to Shaymin-S, as a Life Orb-boosted Iron Head will bring Shaymin-S down to its knees. The rare Crobat and Aerodactyl are naturally faster than Shaymin-S and destroy it with Acrobatics and Stone Edge, respectively. Finally, Trick Room teams can make Shaymin-S's Speed a liability, as it is outsped by nearly every Pokemon in Doubles under the twisted dimensions.</p>