[Overview]

<p>With its great bulk, typing, and offenses, Zapdos makes for a great choice in the Doubles metagame. It has no trouble checking common Pokemon such as Scizor, Breloom, and Garchomp thanks to its useful set of resistances and immunities, and its high base 125 Special Attack in tandem with its good Speed and coverage options make it no slouch offensively either. One of the main problems with Zapdos is the fact that the tier has no shortage of viable Electric-types, meaning that Zapdos must often compete with Pokemon such as Thundurus and Rotom-W for a team slot. While the aforementioned Pokemon might seem to outshine Zapdos, with Thundurus boasting Prankster Thunder Wave, Taunt, and Substitute, and Rotom-W having Water-type STAB, Zapdos's access to unique moves such as Heat Wave and Tailwind as well as superior bulk allows it to distinguish itself from its peers.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Tailwind
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Hidden Power Flying / Hidden Power Ice
move 3: Tailwind
move 4: Detect / Heat Wave
item: Sitrus Berry / Flying Gem
nature: Modest
evs: 144 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA / 108 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Zapdos is able to take advantage of its distinguishing qualities most effectively, turning into an excellent offensive support Pokemon. Thunderbolt is the main STAB move, allowing Zapdos to maul bulky Water-types such as Politoed and Jellicent and granting it good neutral coverage across the board. Hidden Power Flying is a nice option in the secondary slot, granting it a second STAB move as well as hitting Pokemon such as Hitmontop, Breloom, and Ludicolo harder than any other moves Zapdos carries. If you'd rather be able to eliminate Dragon-types such as Garchomp and Salamence as well as both Landorus formes, Hidden Power Ice can also be used. Tailwind is an excellent option for the third slot, granting it and its partners some great Speed control. In addition, Zapdos becomes a much better check to weather-based teams, as it can now compete with Pokemon such as Kingdra and Excadrill that receive a boost to their Speed in their respective weathers. While Protect might seem like a better choice than Detect due to more PP, Detect's relative rarity means that you do not have to worry about it being blocked through Imprison, making it the main choice here. If you find Detect unnecessary, Heat Wave can be used to incinerate Pokemon such as Scizor, Metagross, and Abomasnow.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Sitrus Berry is the main option to increase Zapdos's survivability. If you're using Hidden Power Flying, Flying Gem is also an option as it allow Zapdos to gain some key OHKOs, such as on Ludicolo, Shaymin-S, Hitmontop, Abomasnow, Scrafty, and Volcarona. The EVs in Speed let Zapdos outrun up to Jolly Breloom so Zapdos can KO it before it can use Spore. The use of 144 HP EVs instead of 148 might seem odd, but it makes Zapdos's HP an odd number, limiting the recoil damage it takes at the end of each turn from hail and sand. Unfortunately, this EV spread is still outrun by Kingdra and Excadrill in their respective weather conditions even after Tailwind, so a more offensive spread of 92 HP / 252 SpA / 164 Spe can be used to get the jump on them. If you are in need of a spread move, Discharge is a nice option with a good chance of paralysis, but the fact that it hits your partner can be irritating, as it will force you to either Protect or switch in a Ground-type to avoid taking damage and potentially paralyzing your own Pokemon. Hidden Power Grass is an option to get rid of Gastrodon, which otherwise has little to fear from Zapdos. However, this leaves Zapdos unable to hit Dragon-types, which can be problematic. A Yache or Charti Berry could be used to allow Zapdos to take a powerful Ice- or Rock-type hit, respectively, but Sitrus Berry is typically a better option. If Zapdos is paired with rain support, Thunder can be a nice option due to its higher Base Power and 30% paralysis chance, but due to how common weather changes are, its shaky accuracy outside of rain can be off-putting.</p>

<p>Pokemon that appreciate Tailwind support, such as Garchomp, Genesect, Heracross, and Mamoswine, make for good partners. Garchomp and Mamoswine further enjoy not having to worry about hitting Zapdos with Earthquake, while Genesect and Heracross can eliminate Pokemon such as Tyranitar and Abomasnow that could otherwise cause problems for Zapdos. Steel-types such as Scizor and Metagross make for great partners as they have no problem dispatching the Ice- and Rock-types that threaten Zapdos. Fighting-types such as Terrakion and Breloom are also good partners for similar reasons. Pokemon that struggle with bulky Water-types such as Excadrill, Landorus, and Garchomp enjoy being paired with Zapdos, as it has no trouble dealing large damage to Water-types with its STAB-boosted Thunderbolt. In return, their Ground-type STAB allows the aforementioned Pokemon to handle the Rock-types that pose a problem for Zapdos. Hitmontop makes for an excellent partner for Zapdos, as Fake Out gives Zapdos more opportunities to use Tailwind, Intimidate helps cushion Zapdos against physical hits and allows it to stick around longer, and Wide Guard shields Zapdos from Rock Slides and Blizzards that could take it out.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Light Screen can be a nice option to help Zapdos cushion itself against special attackers, but Tailwind allows Zapdos to simply outspeed them. A set with Rain Dance and Thunder could be a nice option on rain teams to help in weather wars, but because Zapdos is threatened by most other weather inducers it's not the best Pokemon for a set like this. If you want to make Zapdos more geared towards fighting rain, Sunny Day is an option as Zapdos can eliminate Politoed with a STAB-boosted Thunderbolt and then dispel Drizzle. Volt Switch is a nice way to gain momentum while attacking, but is weaker than Thunderbolt and forcing Zapdos out upon use may be problematic when you need to attack repeatedly. Substitute can be nice to set up on resisted hits from Pokemon such as Hitmontop, but Thundurus is generally better suited to using a Substitute set thanks to access to Prankster. Roost can be a nice option over Detect to allow Zapdos to heal off damage, but it removes your Ground-type immunity which can be harmful, and it is of little use if the opposing Pokemon is faster than Zapdos. A set using either Choice Scarf or Choice Specs can be used, but Zapdos prefers to be able to switch moves due to its great coverage. Thunder Wave is a nice option to cripple fast Pokemon, but then it faces extreme competition from Thundurus, which has priority on the move.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Rotom-H is an amazing counter to Zapdos, as it resists every move Zapdos carries and can damage it heavily with its own STAB moves. Mamoswine and Weavile can dispatch Zapdos easily with their Ice-type STAB moves. Mamoswine has no trouble taking any hit Zapdos can throw at it, while Weavile can outspeed and use Ice Punch to take it out. Terrakion, Tyranitar, and Excadrill can all deal large damage to Zapdos with Rock Slide. Tyranitar in particular is problematic since it gets STAB on Rock Slide and can easily switch into any of Zapdos's attacks due to the Special Defense boost it gets in sandstorm. Dragon-types such as Latios, Latias, Hydreigon, Kyurem, and Kyurem-B can all switch into most of Zapdos's attacks and strike back with a powerful Dragon-type attack. Rhyperior is an excellent counter because not only does it have an immunity to Thunderbolt and access to a powerful STAB-boosted Rock Slide, its Lightningrod ability makes it so Zapdos cannot even use Thunderbolt to damage Rhyperior's partner. Rhyperior must watch out for a Hidden Power Grass though. Common hail Pokemon such as Abomasnow and Rotom-F make good checks to Zapdos as they can strike with a powerful Blizzard made 100% accurate by hail. They also both resist Zapdos's Thunderbolt, though both must be wary of Heat Wave.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Lightningrod will be an amazing ability on Zapdos once it gets released as it redirects Electric-type hits and gives Zapdos a boost from them. 