[Overview]

<p>With an enormous base 165 HP, Alomomola stands out as one of the best Wish passers in the game. It's a very successful physically defensive pivot as well, tanking some of the strongest physical attackers in the metagame. Although it is unable to inflict much damage onto Pokemon with its STAB moves, Alomomola can also weaken the opponent by stalling out Toxic damage while maintaining its longevity.</p>

[SET]
name: Wish
move 1: Wish
move 2: Protect
move 3: Waterfall
move 4: Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Regenerator
nature: Impish
evs: 104 HP / 252 Def / 152 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Alomomola is a very effective physically defensive pivot; physically offensive Pokemon such as Primeape, Swellow, and Kangaskhan greatly struggle to defeat it. In addition, Alomomola has no problem switching often because of Regenerator, which makes it incredibly difficult to wear down throughout the match. Wish is key for the set, as the degree to which Alomomola can heal itself and its teammates is one of its main strengths. Protect is an important move for this set as well, as it works well in conjunction with Wish, allowing Alomomola to almost always heal itself. It also racks up Leftovers recovery and scouts the opponent's attacks. While Alomomola lacks offensive presence, Waterfall prevents Alomomola from being complete Taunt bait and acts as a good STAB move. It is also strong enough to break through frail Pokemon's Substitutes. Toxic is the final move of the set, working well with Protect to stall opponents, slowly whittling away at their HP. It is also Alomomola's main way of inflicting damage onto the opponent.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>152 EVs in Special Defense allow Alomomola to survive two hits from Charizard's Hidden Power Grass and Jynx's Focus Blast after Leftovers and wear them down with Life Orb and Toxic damage. 252 EVs are placed in Defense, as when paired with an Impish nature, this enables Alomomola to tank physical attacks much more easily. For example, even a Choice Band Sawk can only 2HKO Alomomola with Close Combat, and a Guts-boosted Swellow can only 3HKO with Facade. This allows Alomomola to serve as a scout against some of the strongest physical attackers in the tier and pivot into a more appropriate check or stall out the opponent. The remaining 104 EVs are used in HP to increase Alomomola's overall bulk and the amount of HP it heals with Wish. It also allows Alomomola to reach a Leftovers number. Regenerator is the ability of choice, as it grants Alomomola the ability to switch in without fear of entry hazards. It's also what makes Alomomola a phenomenal Wish passer, as it is able to use Wish, tank a hit, and switch out while still remaining at nearly full HP. Scald can be used in place of Waterfall for a potential burn chance, but it is even weaker than Waterfall and leaves Alomomola helpless against anything with Substitute due to Alomomola's pitiful Special Attack.</p>

<p>Alomomola can be rendered useless if it is inflicted with status; Lickilicky, Audino, and Flareon are great partners for this reason, as they can use Heal Bell to heal Alomomola when necessary. Flareon in particular can take on Grass-types&mdash;most notably Tangela, Vileplume, and Roselia&mdash;that Alomomola can't get near. They can also take special attacks quite well for Alomomola. Misdreavus and Miltank can also be considered as well; they offer utilities that Alomomola can find useful, such as inflicting the opponent with burn or paralysis, respectively. Toxic Spikes support aids Alomomola in slowly weakening the opponent. Garbodor and Scolipede are good choices in that department; both can handle Grass-types as well if needed. This also lessens the need for Toxic, which allows Alomomola to use other support moves. Pokemon that benefit from Wish support are great partners to use alongside Alomomola; Regice and Eelektross are examples of such. Electric-types can easily KO Alomomola, most notably Rotom-S and Rotom-F. Eelektross, Piloswine, and Seismitoad are all great answers to these Pokemon. They also appreciate the Wish support Alomomola provides. Finally, Taunt users prevent Alomomola from supporting its team, so having partners to deal with them is recommended.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Despite having one viable set, Alomomola has plenty of interesting options for you to utilize. A set consisting of Hydration, Rest, and Rain Dance is intriguing, as it gives Alomomola reliable recovery and longevity. However, it would have trouble fitting all this into a moveset that would be effective, and replacing one of Alomomola's vital moves with Rain Dance generally isn't worth it. Knock Off can further cripple the opponent, but it is challenging to fit this into Alomomola's moveset. Refresh is a great way to heal off status conditions, but it is rather difficult to find a spot for it on the set without hindering Alomomola's abilities. Healing Wish is a situational option, but as Wish almost fully heals the majority of the tier, it isn't worth sacrificing Alomomola for essentially the same effect. Light Screen is an option to better support the team, but other Pokemon outclass Alomomola in using it, and it forces Alomomola to give up a precious moveslot. 

<p>With access to Calm Mind, Ice Beam, Shadow Ball, and Hydro Pump, Alomomola seems like a good candidate for a special attacker at first glance. However, with a weak Special Attack stat, it is hardly worth using in this role. Substitute with Rest and Sleep Talk appears to be viable, but Alomomola doesn't have anything to set up with behind Substitute, and it is already bulky enough, so RestTalk is useless in this case. It also doesn't have the available moveslots to fully utilize Substitute's effect. Mirror Coat and Soak are plausible options; the former allows Alomomola to use its pitiful Special Defense to its advantage, while the latter is a gimmicky option that allows it to use Toxic on Poison- and Steel-types. Finally, Aqua Jet could be used for priority, but it wouldn't do much damage from Alomomola's mediocre Attack. All in all, Alomomola would almost always rather stick to its standard set.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taunt is a great way to silence Alomomola; Serperior, Skuntank, Mandibuzz, and Samurott can all handle it this way. Status moves, particularly Toxic, cripple Alomomola, so wearing it down with them is a good strategy. Because Alomomola isn't strong enough to break through bulky Substitutes or those from Pokemon that resist Water-type attacks, Pokemon such as Braviary, Sawsbuck, and Jynx can easily set up on it. Also, because of Alomomola's pathetic offensive presence, the majority of the tier can set up on it without needing Substitute, though they must be careful of Toxic. Arbok and Muk in particular fare well against Alomomola because of their immunity to Toxic and not taking severe damage from Waterfall. Strong Grass- and Electric-types, such as Rotom-S, Rotom-F, Eelektross, Vileplume, Tangela, and Exeggutor, can threaten Alomomola quite easily. Roselia deserves its own special mention, as it can take any move Alomomola normally carries, threaten it with a STAB Giga Drain, and set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes so that Alomomola has more difficulty switching in. Gothorita can trap and take out Alomomola, preventing it from switching and supporting its teammates. Targeting Alomomola's weaker Special Defense is a great tactic; Gorebyss with Substitute and Shell Smash is a great choice for this, as it can avoid Toxic with Substitute and set up freely.</p>