[Overview]

<p>Ever since the first generation, countless cute Electric-types have attempted to replicate the success of the legendary electric rodent Pikachu; Plusle, Minun, and Pachirisu are just some of the failures that have sunken into competitive obscurity. However, Ampharos is one Electric-type that doesn't sacrifice power for adorability; in fact, it has plenty of both. With an excellent base 115 Special Attack, Ampharos is no offensive slouch, while its excellent bulk—which differentiates it from its fellow Electric-types—keeps Ampharos in the match for much longer. Access to excellent coverage moves in Focus Blast, Power Gem, and Hidden Power means that Ampharos is never without a move to destroy its opposition. Static, a normally useless ability, finds great use on Ampharos, which, unlike its frail Electric-type brethren, can take multiple hits, increasing the chance of Static activating. Unfortunately, Ampharos can't have everything its own way, as its Speed stat is one of the lowest of all fully evolved Electric-types. However, Agility can patch up its Speed issues and let Ampharos potentially sweep. While Ampharos might be a sheep, when it comes to competitive battling, it'll often be the one leading your team to success.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Focus Blast
move 3: Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Thunderbolt
item: Choice Specs / Life Orb
ability: Static
nature: Modest
evs: 208 HP / 252 SpA / 48 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>A tank set makes the most of Ampharos's excellent power and bulk. Volt Switch eases prediction, allowing your team to keep up the momentum and dictate play. Ampharos's low Speed can sometimes be an advantage for your team, as a slow Volt Switch eases prediction and gives frailer Pokemon a free switch-in. However, it would be wise not to let Ampharos take too many hits, as it lacks recovery and can be easily worn down by residual damage.</p>

<p>The other three moves provide Ampharos with great coverage, enabling it to OHKO or 2HKO almost every Pokemon in the metagame. Focus Blast decimates the omnipresent Rock- and Normal-types in NU, such as Regirock and Lickilicky, while Hidden Power eliminates the Ground-types that are immune to Ampharos's STAB attacks. Hidden Power Ice completes the pseudo-BoltBeam combination and takes down Grass-types such as Tangela, as well as Dragon-types such as Altaria. Thunderbolt is the final move and Ampharos's most powerful on the set; as it doesn't force Ampharos to switch out, it is most useful for sustained sweeping. Thunderbolt's power is so great that it has a good chance to 2HKO even the most specially defensive Lickilicky after Stealth Rock, so not much prediction is required when using it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Choice Specs is the default item as it lets Ampharos hit extremely hard. However, if prediction isn't your strong suit, a Life Orb can be used to let Ampharos switch moves and take down slower foes without risking guessing games. Unfortunately, Life Orb detracts from Ampharos's bulk by adding recoil damage to the hazard damage that Ampharos will be taking as it Volt Switches in and out of play. A Modest nature and maximum Special Attack investment let Ampharos hit as hard as possible, while 252 HP EVs give Ampharos solid bulk on both sides, with the remaining 4 EVs being placed in Defense to act as a small buffer. Static is an excellent ability for a slow bulky tank, as Ampharos can easily take a few light hits and fish for the paralysis chance. Ampharos can outspeed a paralyzed opponent and strike it first, while also providing indirect team support for slower teammates that fear fast revenge killers.</p>

<p>Ampharos forces numerous switches with its powerful moves, so entry hazards are very useful to punish the opponent as they flee from the battlefield. Cacturne is a good choice for setting up entry hazards, specifically Spikes; it also resists Ground-type moves and takes down Pokemon such as Quagsire, which is especially useful if Ampharos forgoes Hidden Power Grass. In addition, Ampharos will appreciate Rapid Spin support from the likes of Cryogonal and Armaldo, as it will be doing a lot of switching and doesn't have any form of recovery; Armaldo can set up Stealth Rock for Ampharos as well. Alternatively, Wish support can restore the health Ampharos loses to switching and taking hits; Alomomola is a good candidate in this role, as its giant Wishes almost fully restore Ampharos's HP.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Thunderbolt / Discharge
move 2: Heal Bell
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Volt Switch / Focus Blast
item: Leftovers
ability: Static
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This more specially defensive take on Ampharos lets it better combat the numerous special attackers that roam the tier. Ampharos's unique Electric typing enables it to check Pokemon such as Rotom-S, Eelektross, and Raichu, all of which can do little to harm it. Thunderbolt is Ampharos's main STAB move for its high Base Power and accuracy; despite the lack of investment, it hits hard thanks to Ampharos's base 115 Special Attack. Discharge is an alternative as opponents such as Sawk will hate to be paralyzed, but the likes of Tangela would prefer to be paralyzed than inflicted with Toxic; therefore, the choice depends on whether your team needs the paralysis support. Heal Bell is a rare move that Ampharos can use to great effect, curing your team from debilitating status such as sleep and burn. Toxic lets Ampharos spread its own status, taking down bulky walls and putting the opposition on a deadly timer; however, note that this status might conflict with paralysis from Discharge. The last slot goes to either Volt Switch to scout and gain momentum or Focus Blast to take down common switch-ins to Ampharos, such as Golem.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Ampharos achieves maximum special bulk by investing fully in HP and Special Defense and using a Calm nature. Leftovers gives Ampharos some recovery every turn, keeping it alive and healthy throughout the match. Nonetheless, Wish support is welcome as Ampharos has no instant recovery moves aside from the unreliable Rest. Alomomola is a great choice as it shrugs off physical attacks and can use its gigantic Wishes to heal a good portion of Ampharos's HP. If Wish support is not possible, Rest and Sleep Talk can replace Heal Bell and Volt Switch, but BW's sleep mechanics mean that Ampharos is unlikely to wake up after using Rest. Reflect can be used in the last slot to turn Ampharos into a temporary mixed wall and better support its team, but this is better done by the dual screens support set.</p>

<p>Ampharos's unique support qualities make it a valuable team player for any type of team. Slow, powerful attackers, such as Marowak and Rampardos, appreciate Ampharos's ability to spread paralysis with Static and Discharge, while also weakening walls with Toxic. Pokemon vulnerable to status or that employ Rest as a recovery move like having Ampharos as a teammate as well, due to its ability to provide cleric support. However, do note that Heal Bell can conflict with the playstyles of Pokemon such as Ursaring and Swellow, which rely on status for their high damage output. Ampharos can easily take on Electric-type Pokemon such as Rotom-S, so Pokemon troubled by it, such as Gorebyss, will also appreciate being partnered with Ampharos.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Volt Switch
move 4: Heal Bell / Toxic
item: Light Clay
ability: Static
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With terrific bulk and only one weakness, Ampharos fills the role of a dual screen user very well. Reflect and Light Screen are obvious moves for a dual screen set, and buffer both Ampharos and its teammates from strong attacks. Volt Switch is very important as Ampharos's terrible Speed lets it easily get a frail sweeper in without having to take a hit. Ampharos's excellent bulk—even before screens—enables it to switch in multiple times throughout the match to set up both screens for its team. Heal Bell is the main move in the last slot to cure its teammates of status; alternatively, Toxic can be used to take down walls and put a timer on Pokemon that might want to set up on Ampharos as it sets up screens.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum investment in HP and Defense, along with a Bold nature, allows Ampharos to take hits from both sides, as its Special Defense is already very good. In fact, behind screens, Ampharos will easily shrug off even super effective Earthquakes from Pokemon such as Golem, allowing it to cripple them with Toxic. Static is once again a great ability as it can cripple Pokemon that try to prey on Ampharos's lower Defense stat, hoping to take it down before it can put up both screens. Light Clay is the item of choice for every dual screen user as it prolongs the duration of both Reflect and Light Screen, letting your team cushion blows for an extra three turns. If you want greater coverage on Ground-types, then Focus Blast or Hidden Power Ice can be used in the last slot, depending on your team's needs. Focus Blast is Ampharos's most powerful coverage move while Hidden Power Ice gives it pseudo-BoltBeam coverage, the combination of which is only resisted by a few Pokemon in NU.</p>

<p>Ampharos's dual screen-setting expertise is most appreciated by powerful hyper offense teams that aim to use multiple frail setup sweepers to decimate the opposition. With the extra bulk provided by the screens, sweepers such as Linoone, Gorebyss, and Drifblim have a much easier time setting up. The latter in particular has excellent synergy with Ampharos, as it is immune to Ground-type moves, while Ampharos sponges Electric-type moves for it. Gorebyss also appreciates Ampharos's ability to switch in on and shrug off Electric-type attacks from the likes of Rotom-S.</p>

[SET]
name: Agility
move 1: Agility
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Focus Blast / Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Substitute
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
ability: Static
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As it has an excellent Special Attack stat in addition to good coverage moves, Ampharos's pitiful Speed is the only thing holding it back from a sweep. Luckily, it can use Agility to double its Speed, turning it from a slow attacker into one that can outrun and take down most of the metagame. Thunderbolt is a strong STAB move that destroys most Pokemon, and is the move that Ampharos will be using the most. Unfortunately, it fails to damage Ground-types entirely, so a secondary coverage move is required. Focus Blast is Ampharos's strongest coverage move, which, aside from demolishing Golem and Piloswine, also 2HKOes Lickilicky, NU's premier special wall. Alternatively, Hidden Power Ice provides Ampharos with almost-unresisted BoltBeam coverage, as well as a super effective hit on the Grass-types that resist Thunderbolt. Substitute is used in the last slot to protect Ampharos from status and attacks such as Leech Seed, which could easily cut its sweep short. Unlike frailer sweepers, Ampharos's natural bulk also lets it shrug off most priority moves, such as Skuntank's Sucker Punch, Linoone's ExtremeSpeed, and Gurdurr's Mach Punch, meaning that these Pokemon will fail to stop Ampharos unless it has been weakened.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Agility Ampharos should invest solely in Special Attack and Speed, as it is first and foremost a sweeper. A Timid nature lets a boosted Ampharos outspeed one of the most commonly seen Choice Scarf users, Rotom-S, and demolish it with Hidden Power Ice. A Modest nature can be used for the power boost, but as it leaves Ampharos outpaced by the likes of Choice Scarf Sawk and Pinsir, both of which can demolish Ampharos with a super effective Earthquake, it will be much more easily revenge killed. Leftovers is the best item here as it restores health lost to creating Substitutes and ensures that Ampharos isn't KOed prematurely to residual damage. Unfortunately, Ampharos needs a Life Orb boost to score vital KOs, such as the OHKO on Torterra with Hidden Power Ice, so it remains an option. Instead of using Substitute, Ampharos can opt to use Charge Beam in the last slot to boost its Special Attack even further, making its sweep much easier. In fact, Ampharos can easily take a hit thanks to its great bulk and set up multiple Special Attack boosts. If you choose to use Charge Beam, then Leftovers becomes a much better option as it lets Ampharos rack up more boosts.</p>

<p>Ampharos appreciates entry hazard support from the likes of Garbodor and Cacturne, as hazards weaken opponents, possibly bringing them into KO range of one of Ampharos's moves. The former also absorbs Toxic Spikes, which are a great hindrance to Ampharos, while the latter can easily tank Earthquakes and weaken walls with its powerful attacks. Fast Choice Scarf users can still outspeed even a +2 Ampharos, but most of these are unable to KO it when it's healthy. Nevertheless, these threats should still be removed before Ampharos is sent in to sweep, making Pokemon such as Wynaut excellent teammates.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>The sets listed above already contain all the options Ampharos needs to succeed, but there are some other niche options that Ampharos can use to decent effect. A SubPunch set is unique and can help deal with special walls such as Lickilicky; however, Focus Blast already deals enough damage to KO the threats that Focus Punch would dispose of. Signal Beam is an option to heavily damage most Grass-types, but it only has 5 more Base Power than Hidden Power Ice, which unlike Signal Beam also hits dual Grass / Poison types super effectively. Ampharos can run a purely physical set thanks to its decent Attack stat and usable physical movepool, which includes Wild Charge, Bulldoze, and Fire Punch. Unfortunately, physical sets are almost purely outclassed by specially based ones because of Ampharos's significantly higher Special Attack. Cotton Guard boosts Ampharos's Defense by a whopping three stages, leaving it almost impervious to most physical attacks, but it is a gimmick at best as it doesn't help Ampharos take down the opposition and still leaves it vulnerable to special moves.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>In general, special walls such as Lickilicky, Munchlax, Audino, Zweilous, Dragonair, and Regice sponge any of Ampharos's attacks bar Choice Specs Focus Blast or Hidden Power Ice in Dragonair's case. Piloswine completely walls Ampharos sets lacking Focus Blast or Toxic and can take the opportunity to set up Stealth Rock or threaten a KO with Earthquake. Camerupt can also wall most sets, easily removing Ampharos from play with a super effective STAB Earth Power. Altaria is another great option to wall Ampharos lacking Hidden Power Ice, as it can shrug off Toxic with Natural Cure and set up with Dragon Dance. Bulky Grass-types such as Roselia and Vileplume fare similarly, as they are only threatened by Hidden Power Ice. Even then, specially defensive variants can usually take several hits and retaliate back or in Roselia's case, set up Spikes. Toxic Spikes are a major problem for Ampharos as it relies on its bulk to succeed, and is placed on a timer if poisoned; Heal Bell only has 8 PP, so it can't be relied on to continually cure Ampharos of status. Finally, residual damage from entry hazards and continuous offensive pressure can deal with Ampharos, as it has no reliable recovery and can be easily worn down.</p>