[Overview]

<p>Despite being the strongest physical Ice-type in the tier, Beartic has trouble distinguishing itself from Piloswine. Beartic has good natural bulk, but Ice is a horrible defensive typing and gives it many weaknesses, including one to Stealth Rock. Outside of the rain, Beartic is too slow to sweep through teams. It also has trouble dealing enough damage to threaten dangerous Pokemon such as Ludicolo, Gurdurr, and Samurott. Beartic can post a threat to defensive teams that can't hit it as hard, but even then, it has to deal with common defensive threats such as Alomomola and Metang which it will often have trouble breaking. Make sure your team can make use of Beartic's ability to threaten defensive Pokemon and Grass-types before you give it a team slot.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulk Up
move 1: Bulk Up
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Icicle Crash
move 4: Low Kick
item: Leftovers
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Adamant
evs: 132 HP / 252 Atk / 124 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Beartic can make use of its decent bulk to set up with Bulk Up against defensive Pokemon such as Alomomola and Lickilicky. With this set, Beartic functions well on balanced teams that need a way of breaking through stall. Bulk Up improves Beartic's already good Attack stat and makes it harder for Pokemon such as Lickilicky to wear it down. Substitute works great in tandem with Bulk Up to block status and make it difficult for physically offensive walls to break through after a few boosts. Icicle Crash is Beartic's best STAB move and threatens Grass- and Flying-types such as Tangela and Mandibuzz. Low Kick has good neutral coverage alongside Icicle Crash, dealing with Steel-types and most Thick Fat Pokemon such as Munchlax. This set threatens stall teams, as most members cannot break Beartic's Substitute while any that do are threatened by its offensive moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs allow Beartic to outspeed uninvested base 65 Speed Pokemon, such as Alomomola and Tangela, while maintaining as much offensive power as possible. Toxic Spikes work well with this set, as Beartic threatens most Poison-types and can continuously use Substitute to stall out offensive Pokemon that it can't immediately threaten. Garbodor and Roselia are good teammates to set up Toxic Spikes and absorb them from your side of the field. Bulky Fighting-types such as Gurdurr are threatening to Beartic, making Musharna and Misdreavus are good partners to handle them. Musharna can use a slow Baton Pass to switch in Beartic safely while Misdreavus can act as a spinblocker for your team; both can also use Heal Bell to remove status, which would otherwise cripple Beartic. Regirock and Golem are good options to handle the Fire-types that roast Beartic, most notably Charizard. They can also set up Stealth Rock, which allows Beartic to OHKO Charizard on the switch in with Icicle Crash. As this set can weaken walls such as Alomomola, Tangela, and Mandibuzz, sweepers that appreciate their removal are great teammates. Swords Dance Samurott, Calm Mind Serperior, and Kangaskhan are all good teammates to take advantage of the weakening or removal of walls.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Icicle Crash
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Taunt / Aqua Jet
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Adamant
evs: 32 HP / 252 Atk / 8 Def / 216 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set maximizes Beartic's initial power, threatens most Grass-types in the tier, and serves as Beartic's best set to use on rain teams. Icicle Crash is Beartic's most reliable STAB move and threatens many bulky Pokemon, including Mandibuzz and Tangela. Superpower provides good coverage with Icicle Crash and demolishes most Steel-types before they can retaliate. Stone Edge provides coverage against Fire-types, most notably Torkoal, that can take any other move on this set. Taunt is the preferred move for the last slot, as it allows Beartic to stop walls from inflicting status on it or recovering off the damage that Beartic inflicts. Aqua Jet is useful if your team needs priority, and it is the preferred option if your team provides rain support.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs allow Beartic to outspeed uninvested base 75 Speed Pokemon, such as Garbodor and max Speed Golem. If Swift Swim is active, Beartic can outspeed Modest Electrode as well. The rest of the EVs help maximize Beartic's offensive power and minimize Life Orb recoil. Rock Slide is a viable option over Stone Edge, but the lower Base Power makes it harder to deal with Torkoal. Swords Dance is a viable option for the last slot, but Beartic is generally too frail and slow to set it up. This set is walled by Water-types, so Ludicolo and Exeggutor are good teammates to threaten them. Ludicolo can also provide rain support to allow Beartic to sweep more effectively. Fighting-types threaten Beartic as well, so Musharna is a good teammate to tank their moves and provide Beartic with Heal Bell and Thunder Wave support. Regirock can also provide Thunder Wave support to cripple Choice Scarf users and set up Stealth Rock to allow Beartic to OHKO Charizard and Jynx on the switch in with Icicle Crash.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Avalanche is a viable option over Icicle Crash, as it is the stronger move when Beartic is attacked during the turn, but the negative priority means that Beartic will take damage from Pokemon that it normally outspeeds. Toxic can catch walls such as Alomomola on the switch, but Beartic normally doesn't have room for it. Focus Punch is an option for the Bulk Up set, but its Fighting-type attack is primarily used to hit the Steel-types that can prevent Beartic from keeping up a Substitute. Brick Break can also be used as an alternate Fighting-type move, but it is rather weak. Night Slash allows Beartic to damage Frillish, but it is too rare to be worth devoting a moveslot to handling it. Beartic has a few other setup moves, notably Hone Claws and Rain Dance; however, it is generally too frail to set up. Beartic has some usable special moves, such as Ice Beam and Surf, but it is better off using its physical moves. Beartic also has some interesting support options, most notably Yawn, Encore, and Roar, but it doesn't use them very well due to its poor defensive typing.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Metang counters Beartic completely, as it is neutral to its Fighting-type moves and threatens Beartic with Meteor Mash and Bullet Punch. Other Steel-types can generally take one Fighting-type move at full health and set up on Beartic. Fire-types, such as Torkoal and Simisear, can threaten Beartic, but Stone Edge is a problem for the frailer ones. Rock-types such as Regirock and Carracosta can take Beartic's Fighting-type moves at full health and threaten it back with their super effective STAB moves. Fighting-types can smash Beartic, but most cannot safely switch in. The two notably exceptions to this are Gurdurr and Throh, which both serve as full stops to most Beartic sets. Stealth Rock limits Beartic's decent bulk, allowing any Pokemon that can take a hit to strike back hard. As Beartic is quite slow outside of rain, anything faster than it can generally cripple it due to its lack of resistances.</p>