[Overview]

<p>While Quiver Dance gives Beautifly a chance to act as a sweeper, its awful typing, which gives it a 4x weakness to Stealth Rock, horrible bulk, and subpar Speed make it difficult to use. Even with Quiver Dance, Beautifly has difficulty standing out from other Pokemon of the same type such as Butterfree, which has access to Sleep Powder and Tinted Lens, and Masquerain, which has Intimidate and Baton Pass. Beautifly has access to a situational ability in Swarm, but even while taking Swarm into consideration, Beautifly is still overshadowed by other Quiver Dance users.</p>

[SET]
name: Quiver Dance
move 1: Quiver Dance
move 2: Bug Buzz
move 3: Hidden Power Ground
move 4: Psychic
item: Life Orb / Focus Sash
ability: Swarm
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Functioning as a late-game sweeper, Beautifly has the ability to clean up weakened teams with its great boosting move. Quiver Dance is a given, as Beautifly needs both the Speed and the Special Attack boost to clean up, and the Special Defense boost will help it set up against weaker special attackers, such as Alomomola carrying Scald, as well as Wartortle. After one Quiver Dance with a Timid nature, Beautifly outspeeds Zebstrika, Serperior, and Tauros. Bug Buzz is the main STAB move of choice, with good neutral coverage and a chance to lower the opponent's Special Defense. Hidden Power Ground hits the Steel-, Rock-, Poison-, and Fire-types that resist Bug Buzz. The last slot is given to Psychic, a reasonably powerful attack that hits levitating Poison-types, such as Weezing, and Fighting-types for super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As Beautifly is 4x weak to Stealth Rock, hazard control is essential for its survival. Good choices for partners are Torkoal and Wartortle, which can both provide a free switch-in for Beautifly with Yawn. Sawk can also be used to break through most Stealth Rock leads. Natu, on the other hand, can be used to reflect hazards, though compounding weaknesses means that it will be crucial to carry Pokemon that resist Rock-, Electric-, and Ice-type attacks. A slow U-turn, Volt Switch, or Baton Pass will also help bring Beautifly in unscathed. Ampharos, Eelektross, Probopass, and Musharna work well in this case. Beautifly hates very specially bulky Pokemon, such as Audino, Lickilicky, and Mandibuzz, so Choice Band Sawk and Primeape are good partners to take out Lickilicky with Close Combat and Mandibuzz with repeated Ice Punches. Entry hazards on the opponent's side of the field are necessary to make up for Beautifly's lack of sheer power. For example, at +1, Lickilicky and Audino are both cleanly 2HKOed after Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes. Partners such as Garbodor and Golurk are good choices for this. Beautifly needs a Life Orb to have a chance to 2HKO Lickilicky and Audino after Stealth Rock and a Quiver Dance. However, if you can keep Stealth Rock off the field, Focus Sash is an option to guarantee a Quiver Dance boost against more offensively-oriented teams.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Despite its barren movepool, Beautifly has few other options it can attemp to use. Support options such as Whirlwind, Morning Sun, and Safeguard are available, but they are gimmicky and are difficult to use effectively with Beautifly's mediocre bulk. Hidden Power Flying can be used for STAB thanks to its good neutral coverage alongside Bug Buzz while also hitting Fighting-types harder than Psychic. Shadow Ball can hit Ghost-types, but it won't do much to most of them anyway. Giga Drain can be used for slight recovery and coverage on Seismitoad and Golurk, but doesn't do much else. Substitute can help Beautifly set up and protect itself from status, but this will decrease Beautifly's lifespan significantly if using a Life Orb, forcing it to give up much-needed power by using Leftovers. Lastly, Safeguard can protect Beautifly and its teammates from status, but Beautifly should be focusing on boosting against foes that can't do much to it anyways.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Beautifly loses 50% of its health on the switch if Stealth Rock is up, which heavily impedes its sweeping capabilities. Very specially bulky Pokemon also work wonders in keeping Beautifly in check; specially defensive Altaria, for example, can wall Beautifly even after it sets up. Mandibuzz, Regice, and Lickilicky are slightly shakier checks, as after Stealth Rock damage and one layer of Spikes, they can be 2HKOed even with Leftovers. However, they can scare it out with by threatening paralysis or just by phazing it. Priority from the likes of Carracosta, Samurott, and Skuntank will stop Beautifly in its tracks. Common Choice Scarf Pokemon, including Braviary, Sawk, and Primeape, can destroy Beautifly with super effective attacks and outspeed it even after a boost. Choice Scarf Charizard gets a special mention because it resists two of the three moves Beautifly most commonly carries and can retaliate with a STAB Fire Blast. All in all, Beautifly is not a difficult Pokemon to defeat, and most teams fare well enough against it.</p>
