[Overview]

<p>To be blunt, Beedrill is a terrible Pokemon. It has bad stats and a bad movepool, and is entirely outclassed in whatever role it plays by the likes of Scolipede, Garbodor, and even Ariados. The best thing it can do for a team is to disrupt the opponent as much as it can, as it will never shine brighter than its competition in an offensive or defensive role. Beedrill is often a waste of a teamslot and should really only be used on joke teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Toxic Spikes
move 2: Endeavor
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Tailwind
item: Focus Sash
ability: Swarm
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 252 Spe
ivs: 0 HP / 0 Def / 0 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Toxic Spikes is an annoying move that forces the opponent to take residual damage if the opponent does not have grounded Poison-types. Endeavor provides Beedrill's tiny niche over its competition. With a Focus Sash equipped and terrible defenses, Beedrill will often be knocked down to 1 HP, allowing it to damage the opponent as much as possible before going down. Occasionally, this can reap amusing results with residual damage from Toxic Spikes. U-turn allows Beedrill to escape if it is somehow still alive, and lets it gain momentum and bring in a teammate safely. Finally, Tailwind allows Beedrill to boost its teammates' Speed before it dies.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is essential so that Beedrill can get off at least one support move before it gets knocked out. Endure + Custap Berry can be used with Endeavor, allowing Beedrill to take down opponents even with its Focus Sash broken. However, this is likely to fail against priority and requires a good amount of prediction. Substitute can be used with Endeavor in a similar vein, but this fails against faster opponents and prevents Beedrill from setting up. Roost is an option to get back to full health so that Focus Sash can be activated, but using it is often a waste of a turn due to Beedrill's frailty. Beedrill appreciates teammates that provide a way to prevent entry hazards so that its Focus Sash can remain intact. Mold Breaker Sawk and Taunt Serperior are good options for this. Ground-types, such as Golem, are also great teammates to get rid of grounded Poison-types that annoy Beedrill by removing its Toxic Spikes. Slow but powerful teammates, such as Ursaring, Marowak, and Samurott are also good options to take advantage of the Tailwind support that Beedrill provides. Finally, Beedrill also appreciates teammates that can actually take hits when Beedrill escapes with U-turn.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Toxic is an option for Beedrill to actually do damage to opponents without resorting to Endeavor. Knock Off is a decent option to remove opponents' items and disrupt them a little bit. Baton Pass allows Beedrill to pass several boosts to its teammates, and it even has boosting moves such as Swords Dance and Agility. However, such sets are entirely outclassed by Ninjask and Scolipede. Beedrill can also provide Sunny Day support, but is outclassed by Volbeat in this role. Beedrill can attempt to attack with X-Scissor, but it is usually better off trying to disrupt the opponent in its short lifespan. Pursuit can be used, but it will deal pitiful damage considering that nothing would feel threatened by Beedrill enough to switch out of it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Almost anything can counter Beedrill, but here is a list of those that stand out. Grounded Poison-types absorb Toxic Spikes and waste Beedrill's time. Skuntank in particular is a great option, as it can absorb Toxic Spikes, Taunt Beedrill, and Pursuit it for major damage. Pokemon with Taunt can easily beat Beedrill by preventing the use of its support moves. Misdreavus is immune to Endeavor and can Taunt Beedrill or burn it with Will-O-Wisp. Priority moves can defeat Beedrill once its Focus Sash has been activated and prevent the use of Endeavor. Kangaskhan can use a combination of Fake Out and Double-Edge to prevent Beedrill from doing anything at all. Multi-hit moves can bypass Beedrill's Focus Sash. Piloswine and Golem are examples of Pokemon that can use these to defeat Beedrill. The presence of Stealth Rock and Spikes also prevents Beedrill from using its Focus Sash effectively. Finally, all Pokemon that can outspeed Beedrill and is reasonably powerful can defeat it, although they must be wary of Endeavor.</p>