[Overview]

<p>Bibarel is generally an unfortunate case. All three of its abilities are among the best in the game (Moody being banned for being too overpowered), but Bibarel simply lacks the stats and movepool to make good use of them. Bibarel does possess a decent support movepool with options such as Stealth Rock and Thunder Wave, but it is so heavily outclassed that dealing with its countless flaws is not worth the trouble. However, Bibarel does have the potential to be a plausible threat by using Curse alongside Simple and its great STAB coverage. Even so, Bibarel is still a very weak and underwhelming Pokemon that has no chance of being the serious threat it could have been if it wasn't so cruelly designed.</p>

[SET]
name: Simple Sweeper
move 1: Curse
move 2: Rest
move 3: Waterfall
move 4: Quick Attack
item: Chesto Berry
ability: Simple
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the only set Bibarel can run remotely well. With its Simple ability, Curse becomes a Swords Dance and Iron Defense boost in one, meaning Bibarel only needs to set up three times to maximize its power and bulk. Rest is used to recover Bibarel's lost HP from taking hits while Curse boosting and remove any status ailments, and with Chesto Berry intact, it won't be subject to the initial Rest's sleep effect. Waterfall is the primary STAB attack of choice, hitting more Pokemon harder than Return. Quick Attack takes up the last slot to provide much-needed STAB priority to prevent revenge killers, such as Jynx and Primeape, from easily checking Bibarel.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Max HP EVs are used to give Bibarel more opportunities to pile up Curse boosts, and the rest of the EVs are dumped into Attack with an Adamant nature so Bibarel can actually hit hard with the accumulated Curses. It's possible to run Return over Quick Attack if you prefer to have a stronger coverage attack, but losing priority leaves Bibarel vulnerable to literally any Pokemon due to Curse harshly reducing its Speed.</p>

<p>It's not surprising that Bibarel needs significant support to work. Toxic Spikes support is highly recommended so the opponent is still being hampered as Bibarel boosts up. It also prevents Alomomola from completely walling Bibarel. Therefore, Garbodor and Scolipede are great options to look into, as they both also resist Bibarel's Fighting-type weakness. Due to Bibarel boasting a pitiful defensive stat spread, dual screens support from the likes of Gardevoir and Serperior is strongly encouraged. This can help to potentially ensure Bibarel reaches three Curse boosts for maximum power. It's also necessary to pack teammates to remove the common bulky Grass- and Water-types resistant or immune to Waterfall, such as Tangela, Seismitoad, and the previously mentioned Alomomola. Jynx can handily dispose of Grass-types and the less common Dragon-types that also resist Waterfall with its Ice Beam, even providing sleep support with Lovely Kiss, and Piloswine packs Icicle Spear and priority Ice Shard to pick off weakened Grass- and Dragon-types as well. Exeggutor deals with Water-types very well, demolishing most with its STAB Leaf Storm, and also resists Bibarel's Grass-, Fighting-, and Electric-type weaknesses.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A defensive set with Unaware using Stealth Rock and Toxic, Thunder Wave, or Yawn can be used, but it's generally ineffective with Bibarel's pathetic defenses. It's also possible to run a specially defensive mono-Curse set using Waterfall, but it's far too easily dealt with and difficult to execute with Bibarel's lackluster special bulk. Work Up is another boosting attack Bibarel has access to and can turn it into a mixed attacker, but Bibarel still remains awfully weak with its subpar offenses. Bibarel can be used as a weather supporter as well, but it is completely inferior to the plethora of other choices out there. Taunt and Super Fang can be used in conjunction to break down walls, but Golbat does this task significantly better and there are other more reliable wallbreakers to consider. Lastly, Aqua Tail can be used over Waterfall for a stronger but less accurate STAB attack.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It's not difficult to counter Bibarel whatsoever; anything that can take Waterfall and Quick Attack and retaliate back hard generally works well. More specifically, strong Electric-, Grass, and Fighting-type attackers will completely obliterate Bibarel. Eelektross, Exeggutor, and Sawk are examples of such. Taunt users, such as Mandibuzz and Samurott, can nullify half of Bibarel's typical moveset, and any phazer, such as Bastiodon and Lickilicky, can make it start from square one. Water immune or resistant Pokemon, such as Water Absorb Seismitoad and Alomomola, can hamper Bibarel's sweeping potential, as it's forced to use its weaker Quick Attack. Frillish stands as the perfect counter to Bibarel, being immune to both of Bibarel's STAB attacks, although it cannot do much back. All that basically needs to be done is to not obliviously allow Bibarel to accumulate full boosts because it does have the possibility to do some harm.</p>