[Overview]

<p>Camerupt's Fire / Ground typing gives it a unique niche as an Electric-type counter; not only is it immune to their STABs, but it is neutral to the Hidden Power types they most commonly use, Grass and Ice. Its usefulness is further enhanced by its access to moves such as Stealth Rock and Roar, making it a capable supporter. Unfortunately, Camerupt is not without its flaws. Its two extremely common weaknesses in Water and Ground can be easily preyed upon, and with a 4x weakness to Water-type moves, even its ability Solid Rock can't help it in these scenarios. Its effectiveness as a Stealth Rock setter is also hindered by its poor matchup against the various other Stealth Rock setters throughout the tier. Finally, its role as a tank can often be put into question due to its lack of reliable recovery, mediocre overall bulk, and downright horrible Speed. Nevertheless, Camerupt has a solid niche as a hard Electric-type counter and should not be ignored.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Lava Plume
move 3: Earth Power
move 4: Roar
item: Leftovers
ability: Solid Rock
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Camerupt is best played as a defensive tank, making the most out of its unique defensive typing and access to Stealth Rock. While Camerupt is not often used as a lead due to its weakness to opposing Stealth Rock leads, such as Seismitoad and Golurk, it still finds many opportunities to set up the entry hazard against many Electric-, Steel-, and Grass-types in the tier, and to a certain extent Jynx. Lava Plume is a useful STAB move, as its relatively high burn chance can help to patch up Camerupt's mediocre Defense stat. Earth Power is the secondary STAB option, notably hitting Fire- and Rock-types, which resist Lava Plume, for super effective damage. Finally, the last slot is reserved for Roar, which adds to Camerupt's supportive qualities; not only can it shuffle around the opposing team and deter setup, but it works in excellent conjunction with Stealth Rock to stack up entry hazard damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A specially defensive EV spread helps make the best out of Camerupt's handy immunity and neutralities, allowing it to more easily counter the likes of Serperior, Electabuzz, Zebstrika, and specially based Eelektross. It can opt to go on a more offensive route, such as with a spread of 248 HP / 252 SpA / 8 SpD coupled with a Modest nature which allows it to be a better offensive check to the opposition. However, this detracts severely from its tanking abilities.</p>

<p>Toxic and Will-O-Wisp can be considered in the fourth slot to allow Camerupt to spread status across the opposing team. Protect allows Camerupt to scout for the opponent's next move and respond appropriately. Rest is useful with cleric support, allowing Camerupt to recover lost health with less fear of being turned into setup fodder for two turns. Finally, a Rock-type move such as Hidden Power Rock or Stone Edge allows Camerupt to better check the likes of Charizard, a Pokemon that resists its STAB combination. All things considered, however, Roar generally has more utility, and access to Stealth Rock alongside the ability to phaze is not something many other Pokemon in the tier can claim.</p>

<p>Good partners for Camerupt include Pokemon that can cover its glaring weaknesses to Water- and Ground-types. Roselia capably resists Water-type moves and can set up Spikes to form an effective bulky hazard-stacking core with Camerupt, making it a prime partner. Camerupt can also further take advantage of Roselia's Spikes through the use of Roar, adding up to a great friendship between the two. As Camerupt lacks a form of recovery and as a result is easily worn down, a Wish passer is high in demand to help make up for that. Alomomola is an excellent partner for this role, defeating most Ground-types with relative ease and passing enormous Wishes for Camerupt to take advantage of. In return, Camerupt walks all over the Electric-types that would threaten out Alomomola, resulting in a powerful defensive core. Finally, Ghost-types are excellent partners as they spinblock, keeping Camerupt's entry hazards on the field; Misdreavus is arguably the best partner in this case as it checks Ground-types with the help of Levitate and Will-O-Wisp. Camerupt works best on any stall or balanced team with a big weakness to Electric-types&mdash;the ability to hard counter Volt Switch and its users is always appreciated on these team archetypes, and Camerupt does not disappoint.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Eruption
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Earth Power
move 4: Hidden Power Grass
item: Choice Specs
ability: Solid Rock
nature: Modest
evs: 52 HP / 252 SpA / 204 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a high Special Attack stat, excellent offensive typing, and access to STAB Eruption, Camerupt makes for a fine wallbreaker. With this set, Camerupt forgoes its niche as a tank for the sheer power to muscle through almost the entire tier with Eruption&mdash;to put this into perspective, even Alomomola and offensive variants of Altaria can be 2HKOed! For that reason, Eruption is the primary move on this set, as it is incredibly easy to spam with its amazing Base Power and raw destructive potential. That being said, Camerupt&mdash;along with the power of Eruption&mdash;is worn down easily through either priority or entry hazards. This is where Fire Blast comes into play, as it still packs quite a punch with Camerupt's high Special Attack and Choice Specs equipped. Earth Power is the chosen Ground STAB, sporting a healthy Base Power, perfect accuracy, and the ability to hurt Fire- and Rock-types more than Camerupt's Fire-type moves would. Finally, Hidden Power Grass is the chosen move in the last slot, and while it doesn't see much use, it does have the ability to OHKO Seismitoad, a common bulky Pokemon that resists Fire-type attacks.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread allows Camerupt to outspeed and 2HKO Alomomola with either Eruption or Hidden Power Grass. The last slot's choice of Hidden Power can deviate from just Grass; Hidden Power Ice, for example, can get the jump on defensive variants of Altaria, and Hidden Power Rock can help deal with the likes of Charizard. However, because hitting Seismitoad and other bulky Water-types is arguably more important, Hidden Power Grass is preferred, and because both are 2HKOed or OHKOed, respectively, after Stealth Rock, the added coverage is unnecessary.</p>

<p>Camerupt's main flaw is its horrendous Speed, which often prevents it from landing two full-power Eruptions in a row. Because of this, either Trick Room or paralysis support is highly recommended. Musharna is an example of a Pokemon that can provide both of these&mdash;not only that, but it can also utilize Baton Pass to ensure Camerupt gets a free switch-in. Other great partners include Eelektross and Regice; not only do both share excellent offensive synergy with Camerupt, but they love Trick Room support as well, and form an excellent offensive core with it.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Camerupt can take more of a late-game sweeping role by boosting its Speed with either Rock Polish or Flame Charge; it cannot set up often due to its mediocre bulk, however, and this is better done by Charizard. Alternative setup options include Amnesia and Stockpile, but these end up just being wastes of a moveslot more often than not. Camerupt can set up Sunny Day to accomplish two things: weakening the power of Water-type moves and strengthening the power of its Fire-type moves. There are far better and more reliable Pokemon for this role, however, and this ends up wasting Camerupt's potential. Camerupt has solid physical attacking options in Earthquake, Stone Edge, and Explosion, and even Howl to boost Attack, but its lack of a strong physical Fire-type STAB is quite disappointing. Yawn is an alternative to Roar on the first set, as not only is it able to force switches, but it can cripple a Pokemon for the entirety of a match. Unfortunately, Yawn becomes useless once Sleep Clause is active, making Roar the more reliable choice. Finally, RestTalk can be used as a form of recovery. However, it sacrifices far too much utility to be considered, and RestTalk is an unreliable strategy.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Camerupt isn't very difficult to counter, as its counters are both very common and effective. Water- and Ground-types are the most effective, with Pokemon such as Samurott and Golurk easily being able to force it out with the threat of a super effective STAB attack. It should be noted, however, that Ground-types dislike being burned by Lava Plume. Dragon-types, such as Altaria, Zweilous, and Dragonair, are also excellent counters, as they can shrug off any non-Choice Specs boosted attack and either set up on it, phaze it out, or simply attack it. Most hard-hitting attackers in general can defeat Camerupt with little to no hassle, as Pokemon such as Sawk and Braviary can prey on its mediocre bulk and OHKO it with their STAB attacks. Finally, any form of residual damage is very effective at wearing down Camerupt, as it lacks reliable recovery and is vulnerable to all entry hazards.</p>