[Overview]

<p>Carracosta is one of the best setup sweepers in NU, as it can set up on many offensive Pokemon and tank super effective hits thanks to its ability, Solid Rock. Carracosta has a great offensive typing and powerful STAB options, making it very difficult to defeat if it sets up Shell Smash. However, aside from being an offensive sweeper, Carracosta can also run a tank set with Stealth Rock. Carracosta's awful Speed stat might be the only thing holding it back, but having access to Aqua Jet mitigates that weakness somewhat. After Carracosta sets up a Shell Smash, it can be really devastating and game-changing.</p>

[SET]
name: Shell Smash
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Waterfall
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Aqua Jet
item: Life Orb
ability: Solid Rock
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With its great bulk in unison with Solid Rock, Carracosta can set up Shell Smash on a variety of Pokemon, including Kangaskhan, Tauros, Swellow, and Sawk and Primeape that are not locked into Close Combat. Once Carracosta has set up, it can completely flip the outcome of the game. After a Shell Smash boost, Carracosta can 2HKO Alomomola and OHKO Audino, Braviary, Kangaskhan, and Lickilicky. It should be noted, however, that Carracosta cannot switch into Kangaskhan to set up. Waterfall and Stone Edge are Carracosta's STAB moves, hitting the majority of the tier for at least neutral damage. Aqua Jet is Carracosta's STAB priority move, revenge killing weakened threats and many Choice Scarf users.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Solid Rock is what permits Carracosta to set up on many Pokemon, as it weakens super effective attacks for Carracosta. The EV spread with an Adamant nature allows Carracosta to outspeed neutral base 98 Speed Pokemon, such as Swanna and Basculin, after a Shell Smash boost. However, a Jolly nature can be used to allow Carracosta to outspeed base 113 Pokemon and below, such as Serperior, once it's at +2. A Lum Berry and Sturdy is an option to guarantee Carracosta sets up Shell Smash at full HP. A Liechi Berry with Sturdy is also plausible, with the main advantage being having similar power to Life Orb, minus the recoil. However, it is harder to pull off successfully. Rock Slide can replace Stone Edge for better accuracy, but the loss in power is noticeable. Likewise, Aqua Tail can be used over Waterfall as a slightly stronger STAB move, but the decrease in accuracy can hinder Carracosta. Hidden Power Grass can hit Seismitoad and Alomomola harder and more reliably than Carracosta's other moves, but it would have to give up Waterfall and have a Naughty nature to make the most of it.</p>

<p>Carracosta appreciates entry hazards on the field to make it easier to score OHKOs on Pokemon such as Primeape and Misdreavus. Scolipede, Golurk, and Piloswine are good partners as entry hazard setters, with Scolipede also being able to take on Grass-types that Carracosta despises. Toxic Spikes are huge issue for Carracosta; they make it harder for Carracosta to set up and maintain longevity. Poison-types, specifically Garbodor and Scolipede, can absorb Toxic Spikes for Carracosta. Seismitoad can tank Carracosta's attacks and OHKO with Earth Power, so Pokemon who can deal with it, such as Ludicolo and Vileplume, make great allies. Muk is also a good partner for Carracosta, as it can not only be a great counter to Tangela, but it can also use its ability, Poison Touch, to weaken threats such as Misdreavus, Alomomola, and Seismitoad for Carracosta to KO. Muk can also use Memento to give Carracosta a chance to set up. LumRest Exeggutor, Gothorita, and Charizard can deal with all of Carracosta's counters, specifically Alomomola and Tangela, very well, so they make great partners.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Waterfall
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Aqua Jet / Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Solid Rock
nature: Adamant
evs: 248 HP / 252 Atk / 8 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Carracosta's great bulk with Solid Rock. Carracosta has great potential as a tank, as it can take a hit and deliver one back without much difficulty. With its fantastic physical bulk, Carracosta finds many opportunities to set up Stealth Rock against the many Normal- and Flying-types in the tier. Waterfall and Stone Edge are Carracosta's STAB moves, which boast great coverage against the majority of the tier. Aqua Jet allows Carracosta to bypass its poor Speed stat and pick off weakened foes. However, Toxic holds that surprise factor, crippling walls such as Tangela, Alomomola, and Seismitoad that Carracosta would have trouble defeating otherwise.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>248 HP EVs grant maximum bulk to Carracosta while getting the most HP recovery from Leftovers. 252 Atk EVs with an Adamant nature prevent Carracosta from being offensively weak; however, those EVs can be placed in Defense for more bulk. Rocky Helmet is optional for racking up extra damage on physically offensive Pokemon that Carracosta switches into. With Solid Rock, Carracosta can take super effective attacks more easily; it can avoid an OHKO from Choice Scarf Rotom-S's Thunderbolt and easily tank Kangaskhan's Earthquake. Rock Slide and Aqua Tail can replace the original STAB moves for more accuracy or power, respectively. Knock Off is great for crippling opponents by removing their item, specifically Tangela or Misdreavus's Eviolite. It's hard to fit Knock Off into this set, however.</p>

<p>Carracosta has no reliable recovery, so Heal Bell and Wish users are great allies. Lickilicky can provide both, while Vileplume can provide the latter. Miltank can also be used for Heal Bell support while handling Grass-types for Carracosta with its Sap Sipper. Seismitoad and Samurott are both notable threats to Carracosta, and Serperior and Ludicolo can be used to handle both of them. As Carracosta's main goal is to get Stealth Rock on the field, sweepers that appreciate entry hazard support, such as Pinsir and Ludicolo, are good partners. As Carracosta wants to keep Stealth Rock on the field for its team, having spinblockers, such as Misdreavus, which can offer Heal Bell and Will-O-Wisp support, and Golurk, are good allies. Finally, LumRest Exeggutor and Charizard all both great partners, as they can deal with Carracosta's counters in their own respective ways.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Carracosta is very versatile, so it has many other options to choose from. A fully physically defensive spread with Solid Rock and a moveset consisting of Stealth Rock, Scald, Rock Slide, and Toxic can hit hard and potentially burn opponents with Scald or cripple them with Toxic. Additionally, an offensive Swift Swim set consisting of Waterfall, Stone Edge, Hidden Power Grass, and either Aqua Jet or Stealth Rock is great to consider if Carracosta is used on a rain team. Flail with a Leichi Berry and Sturdy is an extremely situational tactic to OHKO Alomomola at +3 after Stealth Rock damage. Carracosta can use its Shell Smash to power up its specially offensive attacks, which does well against physical walls, but it's weaker than the physically attacking version. Mystic Water can be used to specifically power up Carracosta's Water-type attacks, but its other attacks are then noticeably weaker. A Choice Band set is plausible, as Carracosta has many other physical attacking moves to use, such as Earthquake, Superpower, Body Slam and Low Kick. However, it has the potential to lose too much momentum for the team.</p>

<p>Carracosta can also utilize many other moves. Curse is great for increasing Carracosta's tanking prowess, and it can be used in the tank set to defeat Sub Bulk Up Braviary much easier, but with Carracosta wielding no reliable source of recovery, it isn't very effective. Ice Beam can hit Tangela harder, but unfortunately that is all it really offers to Carracosta. Icy Wind and Bulldoze are both situational moves that can lower the Speed of Carracosta's faster threats, but even so it is still quite slow. Carracosta can be a rain inducer with Damp Rock, but there are generally other Pokemon better suited for that role. Rest is Carracosta's only recovery source, but it leaves itself wide open during the two turns of sleep. Finally, Rock Polish can raise Carracosta's Speed without the defense drops, but unlike Shell Smash, Rock Polish does little to increase Carracosta's offensive presence.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Tangela is the best counter to Carracosta, fearing only the very rare Ice Beam. Grass-types in general, such as Serprior and Vileplume, are great counters to Carracosta as well. Seismitoad and Alomomola can tank any of Carracosta's attacks and retaliate with Earth Power or cripple it with Toxic respectively. Specially offensive Samurott fares pretty well against Carracosta too, as it can OHKO Carracosta with Hidden Power Grass.</p>

<p>Carracosta also has its fair share of checks. Choice Scarf Jynx outspeeds any variant of Carracosta, is immune to its Water-type attacks, and can OHKO Carracosta with Psychic. However, Jynx cannot switch into a Stone Edge from Carracosta, and it can only OHKO Carracosta after a defensive drop from Shell Smash. Sawk locked into Close Combat can severely weaken Carracosta as well, but it doesn't enjoy switching into any of Carracosta's attacks except for Stone Edge. Gurdurr is a good check to the tank set, as it does not mind being hit by Toxic and can tank a Waterfall comfortably. Toxic Spikes will wear Carracosta down very easily, so Pokemon that can set them up, such as Garbodor and Scolipede, are great checks. Even with Solid Rock, hitting Carracosta with consistently powerful attacks is your best bet at defeating it, as it gets worn down very quickly. A great way to make Carracosta less threatening is to stop it from setting up Shell Smash by utilizing offensive pressure or Taunt.</p>