[Overview]

<p>Chatot is an interesting Pokemon; base 91 Speed simply isn't fast enough sometimes, and its bulk is quite depressing, while its only other decent stat is its base 92 Special Attack. It has seen little use in NU but is truly a diamond in the rough. Access to a fantastic boosting move in Nasty Plot as well as support options such as Encore give Chatot the ability to prepare a lethal and nigh unstoppable sweep. However, whilst Chatot is easily able to destroy an unprepared team, it has downright terrible bulk and Speed that's just a tad off being called fast. Chatot easily falls to a strong priority attack or simply a faster sweeper, meaning it needs to rely on teammates to switch to in times of trouble. To sum it up, Chatot can make a fantastic sweeper and a great addition to your team; it just needs the right support.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Hyper Voice
move 3: Heat Wave
move 4: Encore / Hidden Power Grass
item: Life Orb
ability: Tangled Feet
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>After a single Nasty Plot boost, Chatot is ready to beat its opponents to their knees and show absolutely no mercy. Hyper Voice deals insane damage at +2 Special Attack, acting as Chatot's reliable STAB attack. Heat Wave allows Chatot to hit troubling Steel-types, such as Klang, along with neutrally hitting the Ghost-types that Hyper Voice can't touch. The final slot comes down to personal preference; Encore can lock an opponent into a setup or Ground-type move, allowing Chatot a free turn to get off a Nasty Plot, whilst Hidden Power Grass destroys Golem, who resists both Hyper Voice and Heat Wave.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is designed for maximum offensive potential with a Timid nature to give Chatot an extra little boost to its Speed. Chatot is dangerously frail; it will fall almost instantly to priority or faster attackers. For this reason, you should use a bulky teammate who can switch in and absorb a few hits. Miltank can brush off most physical attacks bar Fighting-type moves while Gardevoir and Altaria can tank special attacks with ease. These three Pokemon can also provide Heal Bell support, curing Chatot of any irritating statuses. Entry hazard support works well with Chatot too, the residual damage chipping away at the opponent's health and making it easier for Chatot to score a KO. Finally, Rapid Spin support is highly recommended, as it will save Chatot from losing 25% of its health every time it switches in. Wartortle makes a fine choice, since it is able to spin on Ghost-types by using Foresight and tank some hits for Chatot.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Chatot doesn't really have many other viable options, as its movepool is somewhat awful. Other types of Hidden Power can be used to fit the situation; Hidden Power Water works well here, as it has incredible coverage alongside Hyper Voice. Substitute or Taunt can be used on the Nasty Plot set, but neither functions as well as Encore. A set utilizing FeatherDance and Roost seems possible, but Chatot doesn't have the bulk to pull it off effectively, especially against special attackers. An Agility + Nasty Plot set can be used alongside Hyper Voice and another attacking move (Heat Wave if you aren't scared of Rock-types, Hidden Power Water if you are), but Chatot generally doesn't have time to set up both because of its lack of bulk. Rain Dance or Sunny Day are options if you seriously need weather support, but Chatot has neither the bulk to set them up or the attacks to abuse them with. A Choice set could work; Choice Specs boosts Chatot's Special Attack to high levels right off the bat, whereas a Choice Scarf raises Chatot's Speed to fantastic levels. However, Chatot's Special Attack stat is nothing special without a Nasty Plot boost, and there are plenty of Pokemon that use Choice Scarf much better than it ever could. Sing is a fantastic move when it hits; the problem is, it almost never hits. It could be used if you are desperate for a Sleep inducer, but is far too unreliable otherwise. Chatter and Air Cutter are options if you want that Flying-type STAB more than anything.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Any opponent with either the bulk to take a hit and retaliate or enough Speed to outpace Chatot makes a fine counter. Whilst Gardevoir and Altaria make great teammates, they also make great counters. Gardevoir sponges everything Chatot can throw at it and heals itself right back up, and Altaria can tank a fair amount of hits, but it dislikes Encore. Priority also hammers Chatot, easily bypassing its Speed and hitting its weak defenses. Finally, if Chatot's Rapid Spin user is gone and your opponent manages to set up Stealth Rock, Chatot has to be extremely careful about switching in, as it will be losing a huge chunk of its health every time it does so.</p>