[Overview]

<p>With her frail and delicate appearance, this elegant wind chime truly does not look like much at first glance. Sadly, Chimecho is not really an outstanding Pokemon; NU does not lack good Psychic-type Pokemon, and Chimecho does not distinguish herself from them. In terms of support, Chimecho is often outclassed by Gardevoir and other Psychic-type support Pokemon due to their greater stats and good support movepools. Similarly, Chimecho is offensively outclassed by Musharna and Duosion, who boast significantly higher Special Attack. However, this mystical wind chime is still able to grasp hold of something resembling a niche in the combination of Levitate, Recover, and Heal Bell; in particular, she is the only Psychic-type cleric that has both an instant recovery move and doesn't care about entry hazards thanks to Levitate. This allows her to be a decent supporting Pokemon, as unlike Lickilicky and other Normal-types, Chimecho is capable of checking Pokemon such as Sawk who may otherwise pose issues to certain teams. With all this in mind, Chimecho is not a bad Pokemon, but unless you use her for her special niche, there really is no reason to use her over the variety of other Psychic-types in NU. Despite this, if you are looking for a supporting Pokemon who can check Fighting-types and some Ground-types, don't overlook Chimecho, as her small niche might mesh perfectly with your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Heal Bell
move 2: Recover / Wish
move 3: Thunder Wave / Protect / Toxic
move 4: Psychic
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Chimecho might be outclassed in most areas, this set brings together her few unique qualities—in particular, her access to both Heal Bell and an instant recovery move—to make a respectable supporting Pokemon. Despite her mediocre defenses, Chimecho is able to check some prominent threats in the metagame, such as Choice Scarf Sawk, Golem, Torterra, and other Ground- or Fighting-types thanks to Levitate and her Psychic typing. Furthermore, Chimecho has an excellent slew of support options, and with the ability to use Recover to free up a slot for another move, Chimecho becomes a very versatile supporter who is more than capable of pulling her weight.</p>

<p>It should be noted that this set is a template; thus, it can be modified. Heal Bell and Recover are the key moves for this set, as no other Psychic-type has the combination of Heal Bell and an instant recovery move. This allows Chimecho to use an alternative support option in the third slot, such as Thunder Wave or Toxic. The choice between Thunder Wave and Toxic in the third slot is entirely team dependent; if Chimecho's main job is to check certain threats, Thunder Wave is usually the better option as it makes most sweepers a non-issue. Toxic, on the other hand, is better for wearing down bulkier walls, and Chimecho is capable of stalling them out between Recover and Heal Bell. You may even use a coverage move in the third slot to KO certain threats, but typically a support move has more overall utility. Wish is also a very viable supporting and recovery move, and Chimecho is still not wholly outclassed by Gardevoir if she opts to use it due to Levitate. Do note that in order for Wish to be reliable, Chimecho is forced to give a moveslot for Protect (as Recover and Wish are illegal together), which means you must forgo that extra support option, often making it a lesser choice. In the last slot, Psychic should generally be used as it hits reasonably hard thanks to Chimecho's nice Special Attack stat and ensures that she will not be rendered useless by Taunt.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Levitate and her Psychic typing, Chimecho is usually better off being physically defensive, as her key resistances usually appear in the form of physical attacks. Threats such as Torterra, Sawk, Golem, Gurdurr, and Throh can be checked reasonably well by a physically defensive Chimecho. Furthermore, investing in Special Defense is often a waste of Chimecho's talents, and she becomes easily outclassed by Gardevoir in that role due to Gardevoir's access to Will-O-Wisp and her significantly higher Special Defense stat. However, due to Chimecho's perfect Speed benchmark, you may take some EVs from Defense and invest them into Speed to allow Chimecho to outspeed certain threats and Recover off the damage before they can touch her. Taunt becomes a very decent option if you decide to give Chimecho some Speed EVs, as she Speed ties with most walls without any Speed investment, meaning she can easily outspeed and Taunt them with just a few Speed EVs.</p>

<p>Because Chimecho is a support Pokemon, she doesn't really need much support from other Pokemon; Chimecho herself gives them the support needed to function. Still, Chimecho does appreciate a few things. As Chimecho can't do anything to Dark-types and does pitiful damage to Steel- and Psychic-types, Fighting- and Dark-types make wonderful partners. Sawk, Gurdurr, Throh, and Skuntank are thus great teammates, as they can easily take on most of the Pokemon who give Chimecho trouble. Because Heal Bell defines her main niche, Pokemon who despise status work well alongside Chimecho too. Bulky walls such as Regirock and Tangela enjoy Heal Bell as Toxic cripples them, while sweepers such as the aforementioned Sawk despise burn and paralysis. It should also be noted that one of Chimecho's main advantages over other supporting Pokemon is her resistance and immunity to Fighting- and Ground-type attacks, respectively, so teams that are weak to these attacks will naturally find Chimecho useful.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Recover
move 4: Heal Bell / Taunt
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Despite some heavy competition offensively from almost every Psychic-type in the NU tier, Chimecho has just enough in her arsenal to separate herself from them. Due to the fantastic combination of Recover and Heal Bell, Chimecho can slowly accrue more and more boosts while shedding off damage and status with Recover and Heal Bell, making her a potent threat. Furthermore, Chimecho is not just limited to being a bulky booster with this set; thanks to Heal Bell, Chimecho can still act as a cleric early in the game and check certain threats with Recover and Psychic, while later in the match, she can boost up with Calm Mind and attempt to sweep. This gives her some extra utility over other bulky boosters such as Musharna and Duosion, as they typically have little use early in the game, giving Chimecho a distinct advantage over them.</p>

<p>With Calm Mind, Chimecho can increase her middling Special Defense into something extraordinary and also make herself a powerful offensive threat. Psychic serves as her main STAB move, smacking many Pokemon hard after a few boosts and hitting physical sweepers for reasonable damage early-game. Recover greatly increases Chimecho's survivability and allows her to take a fair amount of abuse while setting up Calm Minds. Heal Bell cures Chimecho and her team of status, ensuring that she cannot be taken down by a stray Toxic and giving her some use earlier in the match as a cleric. Taunt also has some use as it stops opponents from phazing Chimecho with Roar, and still stops Toxic like Heal Bell, but it makes Chimecho more vulnerable to stray burns from Scald and limits her utility throughout the match, making Heal Bell the superior option most of the time.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because Chimecho is boosting her Special Defense and Special Attack with Calm Mind, it is ideal to make her physically defensive so that she can take physical and special hits equally well after a boost. However, it is also possible to take away some Defense EVs and put them into Speed so that Chimecho can outspeed certain walls. This is especially important if Chimecho is using Taunt, as it allows her to stop those walls from trying to set up on her. 44 Speed EVs allow Chimecho to outspeed minimum Speed base 70s such as Mantine, 84 Speed EVs give her the ability to beat minimum Speed base 75s such as Garbodor, and 124 Speed EVs allow her to beat minimum Speed base 80s such as Altaria, Gardevoir, and Grumpig. However, do note that the more Speed EVs you use, the more vulnerable Chimecho becomes to physical attacks.</p>

<p>Despite being a fairly straightforward set, there are a few alternative changes that can be made to it depending on what you feel would fit best with your team. Stored Power is a decent option over Psychic if you want Chimecho to become devastatingly powerful after some boosts, but unfortunately, it is illegal with Recover, which forces Chimecho to use the less reliable Wish. Still, it gives Chimecho a much more offensive edge and forces the opponent to quickly react to Chimecho or be destroyed by Stored Power. If you dislike being walled by Dark- and Psychic-types, you can use Shadow Ball or Hidden Power Fighting over Heal Bell to hit these Pokemon super effectively, though this makes Chimecho significantly more prone to status attacks. Reflect can also be used to bolster Chimecho's Defense stat, making her very hard to break in tandem with the Special Defense boosts from Calm Mind.</p>

<p>This variant of Chimecho is actually fairly self-sustaining, so it doesn't really need much support. However, it does need the absence of Dark-types because with only a Psychic-type attack, Dark-types have free reign to set up. To alleviate this issue, Fighting-types such as Gurdurr, Sawk, and Throh are wonderful allies, as they easily take on those troublesome Dark-type foes, as well as irritating Steel-types, and they appreciate the Heal Bell support that Chimecho can bring. Chimecho also has issues with other Psychic-types if she does not carry Taunt, so carrying a Dark-type of your own can be useful. Absol and Skuntank make great partners, as they will easily be able to dispose of the resilient Psychic-types who make Chimecho cry. Toxic Spikes support can be used instead, because with it, Chimecho will be able to stall out many of the Pokemon who are hard for her to break, such as Lickilicky. Garbodor and Tentacool are the best users, and they complement Chimecho nicely.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Chimecho has an astounding repertoire of options, but the key thing is that many of these options can be utilized by another Pokemon more effectively. However, Chimecho is still very usable for these roles, so if you really like her and find the suggested sets inadequate, there are a few more sets that Chimecho can run. Chimecho is capable of using Trick Room, and with Levitate, Recover, and Healing Wish, she can do a reasonably good job of setting it up; furthermore, she can even make use of it with her nice base 95 Special Attack stat. Chimecho can also set up dual screens with some success, as Healing Wish and Taunt allow her to perform adequately, but for the most part, she is still outclassed by Gardevoir. Additionally, Chimecho has some cool sleep-inducing moves in Hypnosis and Yawn, but they are generally too unreliable to be of much use.</p>

<p>Offensively, Chimecho is not short of options either. An all-out attacker set is a plausible idea as Chimecho has wonderful coverage between Psychic, Shadow Ball, and Hidden Power, and she even has Recover to keep herself alive throughout the match. That being said, unless the immunity to Ground-type attacks is necessary, Musharna and Duosion usually do a better job of this due to their vastly superior Special Attack. Chimecho may even use a Substitute + Disable set with some success, as she can switch into a Pokemon such as Golem, Substitute as it hits her with a Rock-type move, and Disable it, leaving it unable to hit Chimecho with anything. However, Chimecho's frailty is a huge letdown for this set. A generic Choice Scarf or Choice Specs set can be used, but Chimecho really has nothing to separate herself from the other Psychic-types in this role. For any offensive set, Chimecho has some cool options outside of the standard Psychic, Shadow Ball, and Hidden Power, including Charge Beam, Energy Ball, Grass Knot, Icy Wind, and Signal Beam, but they are mostly inferior to her standard offensive attacks.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As a supporting Pokemon, Chimecho can be somewhat tricky to stop, as unless you double switch to something that threatens her, she will be able to pull off that Heal Bell or status move. Dark-types in general work wonders against Chimecho though, as she is setup bait for them unless she carries Hidden Power Fighting. Cacturne, Mandibuzz, and Skuntank are all excellent choices. Cacturne can set up a Swords Dance and proceed to threaten the opposing team, Mandibuzz can Taunt it to prevent it from doing anything, and Skuntank can just trap and KO Chimecho. However, if Chimecho carries Thunder Wave, Cacturne and Skuntank will be heavily crippled unless they carry Substitute or Taunt. Speaking of Taunt, as Chimecho is primarily a supporting Pokemon, Taunt will render her utterly useless if you can hit her with it. Bulky Psychic-types will easily use Chimecho as setup bait, and even if she carries Calm Mind, they can boost alongside her and eventually beat her. Duosion, Musharna, and Gardevoir are prime examples of this, as Chimecho really can't do much to them without Taunt. Because Chimecho is offensively weak in most cases, most Pokemon who can set up will do a good job in general; they just have to be wary of Taunt and Thunder Wave, and they will do fine.</p>