[Overview]

<p>Combusken is a unique threat, one of the only viable Pokemon with Speed Boost in NU with a powerful STAB combination. These factors combined make Combusken a fantastic late-game cleaner to finish off the opponent's weakened team. It can also set up with Swords Dance while forcing out an opponent and immediately become threatening despite its weak offenses. However, Combusken isn't very bulky, making it rather weak to priority, and opposing priority users have to be removed before Combusken can even attempt to sweep. Similarly, it isn't very strong, making it hard to beat bulkier opponents, and it needs to run a Speed increasing nature in order to outrun the most common Choice Scarf users at +2.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Protect
move 3: Flare Blitz
move 4: Sky Uppercut
item: Eviolite
nature: Jolly
ability: Speed Boost
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Combusken can come in on something it forces out and set up a Swords Dance, giving it a huge boost in Attack and making it difficult to stop in combination with Speed Boost. With Eviolite giving it usable bulk, Combusken can set up more easily in a pinch against Pokemon it can't force out. Protect is extremely useful to gather additional Speed boosts, and it also protects it from Fake Out from Pokemon such as Kangaskhan. Flare Blitz is the preferred Fire-type STAB move, as it packs the most power despite the recoil damage. Sky Uppercut is used as a secondary STAB move, hitting Pokemon that resist Fire, such as Rock- and Water-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature on this set is required to outspeed base 95 Speed Pokemon at +1, including Jynx, Primeape, and Sawsbuck. This allows Combusken to revenge kill these threats with Protect and its STAB moves. Eviolite is the item of choice for this set because it gives Combusken some bulk to allow it to set up and is useful to take weak or resisted priority moves such as Sucker Punch. Life Orb is another option for additional power, but the recoil when combined with Flare Blitz can be cut a sweep short. Fire Punch can be used over Flare Blitz if the recoil doesn't appeal to you, but this is not recommended due to its low Base Power. Brick Break can be used over Sky Uppercut for slightly greater accuracy, but it is also weak in comparison. Substitute is an option over Protect, allowing Combusken to avoid status moves, but the recoil with Flare Blitz adds up quickly and it does not reliably shield Combusken from Fake Out. Combusken appreciates entry hazards to nab a few additional KOs; for example, Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes is needed to OHKO Tangela with +2 Flare Blitz. Teammates that can provide these entry hazards include Scolipede and Golurk. Combusken also appreciates having teammates that grant it setup opportunities. Liepard and Muk can use Encore and Memento, respectively, to allow Combusken to have an easier time setting up a Swords Dance. Gothorita is an excellent teammate, as it can trap and remove walls such as Weezing and Alomomola to clear the path for Combusken. Pokemon that can set up dual screens are also good teammates to shield Combusken from priority and give it time to set up; even with an Eviolite equipped, Combusken is still frail. Examples of dual screens users include Gardevoir, Serperior, Ampharos, and Solrock. Finally, Combusken has trouble with bulky Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Frillish. Teammates that can eliminate them, such as Skuntank, are good partners.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Protect
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Focus Blast
move 4: Substitute
item: Life Orb
nature: Modest
ability: Speed Boost
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Rather than setting up with Swords Dance, this set's powerful moves allow Combusken to hit hard right off the bat. Protect is crucial to run on Combusken, as it allows Combusken to boost its Speed for free and scout for the opponent's moves while shielding from Fake Out. Fire Blast is Combusken's main STAB move, and its power makes up for its only decent offensive stats. Focus Blast is the secondary STAB and hits Rock- and Water-types, along with Miltank and Munchlax, which both resist Fire Blast thanks to Thick Fat. Substitute is the preferred move in the fourth moveslot, and Combusken can find setup opportunities against the likes of Tangela and Roselia. Substitute allows Combusken to avoid status moves and protect it from revenge killers before it has gathered enough boosts. It also acts as a safety net in case Combusken misses with its inaccurate STAB moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Life Orb and Modest nature are used on Combusken because it is moderately weak otherwise. To give an example, without the Life Orb, Combusken cannot even secure the OHKO on Choice Scarf Primeape after Stealth Rock damage. However, it should be noted that Combusken is even frailer without an Eviolite and takes huge damage even from resisted priority moves such as Sucker Punch, and its powerful moves have moderately low accuracy. Flamethrower and Hidden Power Fighting can be used over Fire Blast and Focus Blast for additional accuracy, but they are pretty weak and therefore should seldom ever be considered. A Timid nature can also be considered to allow Combusken to outspeed base 95 Speed Pokemon after a Speed boost. Hidden Power Grass can be used over Substitute to defeat Alomomola and Seismitoad without having to resort to the inaccurate Focus Blast. Skuntank is a good partner, as it gets rid of Lampent, Frillish, and other Ghost-types that trouble Combusken. It can also defeat Psychic-types, such as Grumpig and Musharna, that threaten Combusken. Entry hazard support is very helpful in order to help Combusken nab a few extra KOs. For example, Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes enables Combusken to OHKO Audino with Focus Blast. Golurk and Scolipede deserve special mentions for beating opposing Psychic-types and laying the entry hazards that Combusken needs.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Bulk Up can be used to boost Combusken's defenses, but Combusken is still pretty frail after a boost, making Swords Dance the superior option most of the time. Hone Claws can be used to give Combusken an accuracy boost, but the inaccurate moves in its arsenal are specially based, and Combusken's offensive stats are too weak to go down the mixed route. Baton Pass can be used to pass Swords Dance boosts to Combusken's teammates, but Baton Pass's illegality with Speed Boost makes Ninjask a better option for this role. ThunderPunch can be used to defeat Frillish, Pelipper, and Mantine, while Rock Slide can be used to hit Lampent, but these moves do not provide much coverage outside of these specific checks. Shadow Claw is an option to hit Frillish and Lampent hard, but similarly, it is useless apart from these uncommon threats. Vacuum Wave can be used as a priority move, but Combusken rarely needs it because it already has Speed Boost, it is very weak, and the move is illegal with Speed Boost. Endure and Reversal sound like a fun gimmick, but the combination doesn't solve Combusken's issue with priority moves, and they are illegal with Speed Boost. Finally, Will-O-Wisp and FeatherDance can compose a gimmicky support set, but Combusken has better things to be doing with such a great ability, and other physical walls such as Misdreavus would perform this role this better.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Frillish and Lampent completely wall Combusken with their resistances or immunities both of its STAB moves. Meanwhile, Frillish threatens Combusken back with Scald or Night Shade, while Lampent simply sets up against it. Mantine and Pelipper also easily tank hits from both sets and can hit it back hard and heal the damage they take with either Rest or Roost. Weezing, Alomomola, and Garbodor wall the Swords Dance sets with ease, and Alomomola can even retaliate with a strong Waterfall. Bulky variants of Altaria and specially defensive Ludicolo easily defeat the special attacking set. Dragonair can also tank hits from the special set while setting up against and eventually beating Combusken. Grumpig, Musharna, Gothorita, and Hypno are bulky Psychic-types that easily tank moves from both sets and hit back extremely hard with Psychic. Priority users, such as Carracosta and Swords Dance Samurott, can easily pick off Combusken no matter how many Speed boosts it has. Fast Choice Scarf users, such as Charizard and Tauros, can outspeed Combusken even at +2 and OHKO back with a super effective move, but these Pokemon have to be wary of switching into it. However, Charizard can still switch in freely because it resists Combusken's STAB moves and can OHKO it with Air Slash.</p>