[Overview]

<p>With a good Water / Rock defensive typing, an awesome ability in Regenerator, and a wide movepool, Corsola might seem like a good Pokemon. However, due to its extremely lackluster stats across the board, Corsola is in fact terrible. The only place where Corsola can find even a small niche is in stall, as its access to Stealth Rock, reliable recovery, and many other good options can make it a useful Pokemon to have. One of the biggest niches it has on stall is being able to put a full stop to Substitute and Bulk Up Braviary with the combination of Power Gem and Toxic. However, even on stall teams it faces heavy competition from staple physical walls that can provide more support to their teams than Corsola, including a way of stopping Substitute and Bulk Up Braviary. Recover and Regenerator are the main factors that make Corsola worth using over its competition, with none of the other Pokemon that are capable of stopping Substitute and Bulk Up Braviary having reliable recovery. Corsola also beats many of the tier's staple Pokemon, including Normal- and Flying-types such as Kangaskhan and Swellow. However, it has many exploitable weaknesses that Pokemon such as Roselia can take advantage of.</p>

[SET]
name: World's Cutest Wall
move 1: Power Gem
move 2: Recover
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Stealth Rock / Scald
item: Leftovers
ability: Regenerator
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Corsola can take quite a few physical hits without trouble, partly thanks to its good defensive typing and access to reliable recovery in Recover. This set doesn't just beat Braviary, but also checks a lot of other Normal- and Flying-types such as Swellow, Kangaskhan, and Tauros. Regenerator is also extremely useful, as it enables Corsola to stay alive for much longer and act as a decent pivot. Power Gem is the attacking move of choice as it prevents Braviary from setting up Substitutes against Corsola, breaking them 100% of the time with four Special Attack EVs. Power Gem also 2HKOes Jynx, one of the few relevant things Corsola is able to check, after Stealth Rock. Toxic is an essential move for Corsola, as it is the main way of wearing down most Pokemon due to Corsola's lack of offensive presence and its low Base Power moves. Toxic is also vital in defeating Substitute and Bulk Up Braviary, as, alongside Power Gem breaking its Substitutes, Braviary will eventually go down. Stealth Rock is Corsola's move of choice if your team doesn't have a Pokemon with the move, but otherwise Scald is the best choice, as it provides some useful coverage to get decent damage off and a chance to burn on anything it hits.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Good Pokemon to pair alongside Corsola include those that beat the numerous Fighting-, Ground-, and Grass-type Pokemon that reside in NU. Solid candidates for this role include Pokemon such as Musharna, Ludicolo, and Roselia. Musharna provides Heal Bell support, which can heal Corsola of annoying status conditions that reduce its longevity. Roselia can take on special attackers that trouble Corsola while setting up Spikes, which are useful for the stall teams that Corsola often finds its home on. Ludicolo does well against Ground-types, specially attacking Water-types, and Eelektross, all of which give Corsola trouble, while Corsola handles the Flying-types that beat Ludicolo.</p>

<p>Either Rock Blast or Rock Slide can be used over Power Gem, as Rock Blast breaks through Substitutes and Rock Slide is more powerful. Power Gem is the preferred option though, as the other two moves aren't guaranteed to break Braviary's Substitutes due to the fact that it uses Bulk Up to boost its Defense, and Braviary has no way to boost its Special Defense. Since this one of the only reasons to use Corsola, Power Gem is generally the better choice, even though the other options do better against Pokemon such as Jynx. A more specially bulky spread can be run instead, but the main purpose of Corsola in the first place is to beat Normal- and Flying-type Pokemon, and a physically defensive spread is far better at accomplishing that.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>With a wide movepool, Corsola has many moves to choose from, though the large majority of them are extremely lackluster. It can go offensive with Choice Specs and multiple special moves with decent power, or Choice Band with Head Smash, which deals a lot of damage to anything that doesn't resist it, even with Corsola's pitiful Attack stat. Rock Polish is another offensive option, but even at +2 Corsola is incredibly slow and has next to no offensive presence, so it won't be dealing much damage to anything without a boost to its offenses. Corsola can choose to set up with Curse, but it will take a while before it can deal any notable damage due to Corsola's low Attack.</p>

<p>Magic Coat is an interesting option which can deflect back any status moves used by the opponent. With some good prediction, Corsola can prevent Stealth Rock going up on your side of the field, and put them up on your opponent's side at the same time. It's also useful in preventing poisons and burns, which would otherwise wear Corsola down quickly. Mirror Coat can be used to retaliate against special attackers by hitting them back twice as hard, which can be useful for a surprise KO on an unsuspecting Pokemon. Corsola could run a decent SubToxic set utilizing Recover. Substitute is useful for scouting on a switch, and after getting a Toxic off, Corsola regains all the health it lost from Substitute when it switches out thanks to Regenerator.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Any Grass-type carrying a STAB move will make easy work of Corsola, and Fighting-types are in the same position. They can easily outspeed and OHKO with almost any STAB move, and Corsola can't do anything back except Toxic, as Power Gem hardly does any damage at all (especially to the Fighting-types). Roselia is the perfect counter to Corsola; it can take any hit, isn't affected by Toxic, can OHKO with Giga Drain, and uses the free turns to set up Spikes. Ludicolo is in a similar vein, as it doesn't care about any of Corsola's moves except Toxic, and can set up Rain Dance in preparation for a sweep. Gurdurr is the Fighting-type most suited to taking Corsola on, as it doesn't care about any status from Toxic or Scald thanks to Guts, while Sawk and Primeape have to watch out for the burn from Scald as they switch in. Almost every Ground-type can outspeed and OHKO Corsola, though most can't switch in, as they are in danger of taking a decent amount of damage from Scald. Seismitoad is one of the exceptions to this, as it takes hardly any damage from Power Gem, is immune to Scald thanks to Water Absorb, and can deal massive damage with Earth Power or Earthquake. It does have to watch out for Toxic, however. Steel-types, Poison-types, and other Pokemon that don't care about Toxic will do well against Corsola by default, as Toxic is Corsola's primary way of damaging anything. There are exceptions however, as some Pokemon that don't care about Toxic, such as Scolipede and Swellow, have a poor matchup against Corsola.</p>