[Overview]

<p>This floating snowflake is a unique Pokemon due to its very strange distribution of stats. Cryogonal has an absolutely huge Special Defense stat, but its Defense stat, which is on par with most NFE Pokemon, is a huge letdown. With a very good Speed for NU and a decent Special Attack stat, Cryogonal is a Pokemon with a very particular niche. Cryogonal's stat spread, along with its access to both Recover and Rapid Spin, make it the most reliable Rapid Spin user in NU, partly due to its ability to beat all of the common Ghost-type Pokemon one-on-one. Its weakness to Stealth Rock certainly limits its capabilities as a Rapid Spin user, but Cryogonal makes up for it by being immune to both Spikes and Toxic Spikes due to its fantastic ability, Levitate. In addition, Cryogonal has just the right tools to function as an offensive Rapid Spin user despite its very shallow movepool.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Wall
move 1: Ice Beam
move 2: Rapid Spin
move 3: Recover
move 4: Toxic
item: Leftovers 
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 252 SpD / 8 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Cryogonal's amazing special walling capabilities make it the most reliable Rapid Spin user in NU despite its weakness to Stealth Rock. It can easily switch into most special attackers in the tier, apart from those carrying STAB super effective moves, and proceed to spin away any entry hazards; it can then repeat the process by healing with Recover if necessary. Cryogonal struggles to switch directly into many of the entry hazard setters, however, as they are primarily physically based. Ice Beam is a staple on Cryogonal, as it is the most reliable STAB move it can use, and it still hits relatively hard even without any investment in Special Attack. Rapid Spin is the move that sets Cryogonal apart from other special walls, enabling it to provide another facet of team support. Recover lets Cryogonal heal off Stealth Rock and other damage, providing the ability to use Rapid Spin multiple times in a match and to potentially stall with Toxic. Toxic also hits opposing Cryogonal, which would otherwise switch in for free, and it stops Cryogonal from becoming setup bait for many dangerous sweepers such as Samurott.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread gives Cryogonal as much special bulk as possible, while 248 HP EVs allow it to take less damage from Stealth Rock. Leftovers is normally the default item for a wall, and Cryogonal is no exception, as it appreciates the extra recovery as it uses Rapid Spin or Toxic. Cryogonal gets access to the rare Haze and can make great use of it to stop Calm Mind sweepers such as Duosion and Musharna in their tracks, but Cryogonal must be wary of Psyshock. Generally, Toxic would be the move to replace. A coverage move in Hidden Power can provide extra utility: Hidden Power Rock hits Fire-types such as Charizard and Magmortar, which will otherwise enjoy switching into Cryogonal. Hidden Power Ground can be used to hit Probopass and Bastiodon, two common users of Stealth Rock, for a large amount of damage, while Hidden Power Electric can prevent Gorebyss from setting up on Cryogonal. Cryogonal can also use Reflect to patch up its terrible Defense and help its teammates.</p>

<p>Many Pokemon in NU are plagued by their weakness to Stealth Rock, so they all appreciate being on the same team as Cryogonal. Braviary and Charizard are two prime examples of Pokemon that, while not sharing the greatest synergy with Cryogonal, still love having Stealth Rock removed from their side of the field, as it makes switching in much easier. Due to its walling capabilities, Cryogonal makes a defensive partner for physically defensive Pokemon such as Tangela and Quagsire. Aside from Tangela, Vileplume is another effective Grass-type teammate, as it can rid Cryogonal of status with Aromatherapy and take on common checks to Cryogonal such as Sawk and Samurott. Cryogonal is not very threatening on its own; it is the team support it provides that makes it useful.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Ice Beam
move 2: Hidden Power Ground / Hidden Power Rock
move 3: Recover
move 4: Rapid Spin
item: Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Cryogonal can make great use of an offensive set to surprise its regular checks with its high Speed and powerful attacks. Ice Beam is a fantastic STAB move that nothing is immune to, meaning it can easily sweep a weakened team. The choice of Hidden Power type depends on which threats Cryogonal needs to eliminate. Hidden Power Ground hits common Steel-types such as Bastiodon and Probopass, while Hidden Power Rock hits Charizard and other Fire-types, as well as opposing Cryogonal. It should be noted that Hidden Power Rock will lower Cryogonal's Speed IV, meaning it cannot Speed tie with Rapidash and other base 105 Speed Pokemon. Recover is great even on an offensive set, as it heals off both Stealth Rock and Life Orb damage. This set beats most Ghost-types by itself, as almost none of them can stand up to its offensive onslaught; this enables it to use Rapid Spin later to eliminate entry hazards, making it a fantastic choice on an offensive team.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Speed EVs with a Timid nature allows Cryogonal to Speed tie with other base 105 Speed Pokemon, most notably Rapidash. This makes Cryogonal very fast in NU, as only a few select Pokemon and Choice Scarf users outspeed it. 252 Special Attack EVs are used to hit as hard as possible, while the remaining 4 EVs are placed in Special Defense instead of HP to maintain an odd HP number. Life Orb makes Cryogonal very powerful and is generally unexpected, as its main job is to wall. Leftovers can be used to bluff a defensive set, but this can be figured out by the damage Cryogonal both dishes out and receives. Hidden Power Electric is another option, primarily used to hit Gorebyss. Almost any Hidden Power type can be used to hit a particular threat, but it should be noted that even a resisted STAB Ice Beam hits harder than a neutral Hidden Power. Cryogonal should not aim for neutral coverage, but for powerful hits on specific threats instead.</p>

<p>Offensive Cryogonal makes a great Steel-type lure when using Hidden Power Ground, so pairing it with a Pokemon that can sweep when Steel-types are removed is a good plan; Linoone comes to mind as a deadly sweeper. Due to its offensive nature and the amount of pressure it puts on opposing teams, this Cryogonal set works fantastically on offensive teams that need to get rid of Stealth Rock.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Cryogonal possesses an incredibly shallow movepool, so it lacks many other usable options. Flash Cannon can be used on the offensive set to hit opposing Cryogonal without running Hidden Power Rock, but it is generally inferior. A dual screen set with Light Clay can be very effective due to Cryogonal's Speed and access to Rapid Spin. Acid Armor can be pretty effective in patching up Cryogonal's Defense, but it is often more effective to pair Cryogonal with a physical wall such as Tangela. Frost Breath is an interesting alternative STAB move that ignores opposing stat boosts. If you are running a rain team, then Cryogonal can make for a decent weather starter with Rain Dance.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best way to beat Cryogonal is to prey on its horrible Defense stat, as almost any physical attack will do a large amount of damage. Steel-types are usually good checks; Bastiodon and Probopass work well in particular, provided Cryogonal is not running Hidden Power Ground. Despite not being a Ghost- or Psychic-type, Cryogonal can be easily trapped with Pursuit by the likes of Skuntank and Absol. The defensive set is setup fodder for many physical sweepers, such as Bulk Up Gurdurr, Swords Dance Samurott, and Absol. Despite being a dedicated special wall, certain Fire-types, such as Charizard and Magmortar, can break through Cryogonal. Defensive teams normally struggle to prevent Cryogonal from using Rapid Spin, so they must punish Cryogonal by hitting it with a powerful attack from a Pokemon such as Lickilicky. Hitting Cryogonal with Toxic will also quickly wear it down.</p>