[Overview]

<p>Dodrio's combination of great Attack and Speed, which allows it to outspeed and take out unboosted base 95 Speed Pokemon such as Jynx and Haunter, makes it surprisingly effective in this metagame. It can even trap Jynx and Haunter thanks to Pursuit, giving it some extra utility on a team. Its greatest drawback is the fact that it is helpless against Rock- and Steel-types, which are common Stealth Rock setters in the metagame. Speaking of Stealth Rock, taking 25% damage when switching in makes Dodrio frailer than it already is, as it gets worn down quickly alongside Brave Bird's recoil. Still, it provides a balance between power and Speed, which gives it a niche in comparison to Braviary.</p>

[SET]
name: KACAW (Choice Band)
move 1: Brave Bird
move 2: Return
move 3: Pursuit
move 4: Quick Attack / Toxic
item: Choice Band
ability: Early Bird
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Brave Bird is Dodrio's strongest and most reliable STAB move, with the recoil being a small price to pay as Dodrio is already quite frail. Return is the safest choice for a secondary STAB move, having no drawback and decent power. Pursuit makes use of Dodrio's great power and Speed, striking any Haunter and Jynx without a Choice Scarf before they can move and taking them out whether they switch out or not. Quick Attack provides useful STAB priority to pick off weakened sweepers, and it still has some decent power behind it. Toxic is another viable option for the last slot to catch physical walls such as Alomomola and Misdreavus on the switch in, but being locked into it can be inconvenient.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Early Bird is the preferred ability as it makes Dodrio a better check against Grass-types and Butterfree. Stealth Rock is very useful for Dodrio, as it guarantees that Dodrio can OHKO Bulk Up Braviary and offensive Armaldo and 2HKO 172 HP Eelektross with Brave Bird. Golem and Seismitoad are some great options for setting Stealth Rock as their Ground typing allows them to check most Electric-types and also prevents your opponent from safely using Volt Switch. Spikes is also very beneficial because two layers alongside Stealth Rock allows Dodrio to 2HKO standard Alomomola with Brave Bird. Garbodor and Roselia are good teammates to set up Spikes, and both can set up Toxic Spikes as an added bonus. As Dodrio takes a lot of damage from Brave Bird recoil and Stealth Rock, having ways to keep Stealth Rock off the field is very beneficial. Sawk and Samurott are great offensive options to prevent most Stealth Rock users from setting up, and they also threaten the Rock- and Steel-types that Dodrio  cannot easily damage. Cleric support from Musharna or Misdreavus is very useful because Dodrio is utterly crippled by paralysis and burns.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Thrash is also a viable STAB move as it has much more power behind it than Return. One must understand that being locked into the move is a problem however, as there are a few types that can easily switch into Thrash and set up, and the confusion provides only a small benefit when combined with Tangled Feet. You rarely want to keep Dodrio in after Thrash ends, as the evasion boost doesn't prevent it from hitting itself in confusion, which can be fatal due to its high Attack. A stallbreaker set is a viable option, using Taunt and Roost to break through some walls. Unfortunately, such a set is at best mediocre at accomplishing this job, with its low bulk making even weak attacks a problem. Baton Pass allows Dodrio to escape battle while maintaining momentum, but it is illegal with Brave Bird. Work Up is an option to increase Dodrio's offensive power, but Dodrio is generally too frail to set up and would prefer to simply attack. Substitute can work alongside Agility and Liechi Berry, but priority is quite common in the metagame. Faint Attack and Payback are options over Pursuit, but they lack its utility. Drill Peck is a viable option over Brave Bird if you don't like recoil, but the loss in power is very drastic. Double-Edge is a viable option over Return and Thrash, but it is illegal alongside Brave Bird. Steel Wing is Dodrio's only option to hit Rock-types, but it is rather weak and fails to defeat them before they defeat Dodrio. Acupressure can provide a random boost to one of Dodrio's stats, but it is so unreliable that it isn't worth the moveslot. Haze, Endeavor, and Torment are interesting support moves, but Dodrio cannot make use of them with its frailty and lack of resistances.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon, such as Regirock and Metang, are almost always perfect counters to Dodrio, and they can even set up Stealth Rock to limit the number of times it can switch in. Physically defensive Mandibuzz can tank repeated Brave Birds and respond with Foul Play. Alomomola can take a Brave Bird and retaliate with Toxic or its Water STAB in response; meanwhile, it can stall with Protect and pivot out to a Flying-type resistance. Weezing can take a couple of Brave Birds and respond with Will-O-Wisp or Sludge Bomb. Almost everything faster than Dodrio can revenge kill it. Faster Electric-types are notable choices because they can easily use Volt Switch to either OHKO Dodrio or gain momentum if it switches out. Because Dodrio is so frail, priority can inflict a huge amount of damage on it. It is important to note that Quick Attack variants can get around Sucker Punch users.</p>