[Overview]

<p>A single glance at Dragonair's stats would usually give you the impression that she is a mediocre Pokemon. In all honesty, she is. Offensively, her stats aren't so hot, especially when there are better offensive Dragon-types such as Fraxure. If you combine that with her subpar Speed and defensive stats, Dragonair might not even be worth using in the NU tier. However, thanks to two useful abilities, Shed Skin and Marvel Scale, and Eviolite, Dragonair still finds hope to become known in NU. While her defensive stats alone aren't very promising, holding an Eviolite allows them to be utilized. Her great defensive typing gives her resistances to many common types, as well as only two weaknesses. Because of this bulk, she can make use of Dragon Dance. Thunder Wave and Dragon Tail are also great move selections for Dragonair to help her cripple sweepers and rack up entry hazard damage. Overall, while Dragonair does have her perks, she is outclassed in many ways and should be used with extreme care.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Rest
move 3: Outrage
move 4: Sleep Talk / Waterfall 
item: Eviolite
ability: Shed Skin / Marvel Scale
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Dragonair can function well with a bulky offensive set. She can set up Dragon Dance on special attackers such as Eelektross, Serperior, Seismitoad, and Charizard by taking advantage of her decent bulk, in contrast to other frail sweepers. In spite of her defensive boost, this set isn't meant to set up on powerhouses and bulky setup sweepers, such as Sawk and Carracosta, but it is rather meant to set up on special attackers and walls, which in some cases cannot stop at least one Dragon Dance. Thanks to Dragonair's great ability options, Rest can be used with succession, giving Dragonair a recovery option.</p>

<p>Dragon Dance raises Dragonair's Speed and Attack to viable levels. Rest is Dragonair's only source of recovery, and while two turns asleep can hinder Dragonair's capabilities, Shed Skin and Marvel Scale can mend it. If she finds an opportunity to set up, Dragonair can break through opposing teams with her powerful STAB move, Outrage, as there aren't many Pokemon in the tier that can resist it. Sleep Talk is the preferred option in the final moveslot, as it takes advantage of Rest and works well in conjunction with Marvel Scale. Sleep Talk also allows Outrage to be used without being locked into it. However, Waterfall can be used for extra coverage, but unless Dragonair encounters a Steel-type, Outrage is almost always the superior choice.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>Shed Skin and Marvel Scale both have their merits and should be used accordingly. Shed Skin gives the opportunity for Dragonair to wake up from Rest 33% of the time, which can be useful in the midst of setting up. However, Marvel Scale gives Dragonair a 50% boost in Defense when Dragonair is inflicted with status, which allows Dragonair to be even harder to defeat. Full investment in both HP and Special Defense allows Dragonair to obtain the bulk necessary to set up on her main target. With Eviolite, the given Special Defense EVs, and her great defensive typing, Dragonair doesn't have many difficulties setting up against special attackers, such as Eelektross and Charizard. A Careful nature maximizes her Special Defense. An EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 Spe is optional to handle physical attackers such as Tauros and Primeape. Extremespeed is an option that could be used in the last moveslot. However, it offers nothing in terms of coverage, and Dragonair usually isn't going to be attacking much until it has attained several boosts anyways.</p>

<p>As Dragonair's attacks are usually underwhelming, entry hazards are appreciated so that Dragonair can manage to land a KO. Scolipede, Garbodor, and Probopass are good partners for that role; Probopass in particular has good synergy with Dragonair, as it takes the Ice-type attacks aimed at her and can eliminate pesky Steel-types with Magnet Pull. Pokemon that can spread paralysis or burn, such as Volbeat, Liepard, or Misdreavus, can be helpful in weakening the opponent for Dragonair. Heal Bell support can be useful for Dragonair, especially when not running Sleep Talk. Lickilicky and Miltank are great selections as Heal Bell partners, and Lickilicky can also pass Wishes to Dragonair.</p>

[SET]
name: RestTalk
move 1: Rest
move 2: Dragon Tail / Outrage
move 3: Thunder Wave
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Eviolite
ability: Marvel Scale
nature: Careful
evs: 244 HP / 56 Def / 208 SpD

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Dragonair's goal for this set is to spread paralysis against the opposing team, which can be achieved thanks to her access to Eviolite, recovery from Rest, and the Defense boost from Marvel Scale when Dragonair is afflicted with status. Rest is the key move in this set, as it keeps Dragonair healthy. Thunder Wave is an important move to the set because it can not only cripple the opposing sweepers, but can give an opportunity for teammates to attack. Dragon Tail in conjunction with Thunder Wave allows Dragonair to pass paralysis to the adversary, as well as stopping setup sweepers from advancing, such as Swords Dance Samurott. However, due to Dragonair's lackluster Attack stat, she is often setup bait to Substitute users, who can then set up entry hazards, Leech Seed, or power up. In such a scenario, Outrage is a solution, allowing Dragonair to have some sort of offensive presence. Sleep Talk is the final move of the set, allowing Dragonair to continue to act while she is asleep from Rest.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>Marvel Scale encourages Rest to be used, as the 50% Defense boost helps maintain Dragonair's longevity, allowing her to fare well against physical attackers, such as Rapidash, non-Mold Breaker Pinser, and Swellow. The given EV spread balances her defensive stats when Marvel Scale is activated. A Careful nature enhances her Special Defense. Eviolite also increases her defenses, allowing her to survive hits much easier. If Thunder Wave isn't used, Dragon Dance can be replaced with it, giving her the chance to deal with more offensive threats. Toxic can also replace Thunder Wave to cripple bulky walls, such as Regirock and Alomomola. Pokemon that benefit from having paralyzed opponents, such as Choice Band Sawk, Butterfree, and Braviary, are great allies, as they can perform sweeps on the opposing team with fewer difficulties. Rotom-F and Jynx are great Pokemon to handle powerful physical attackers, such as Golurk and Braviary, but they must be careful of opposing Fighting-type moves. Golurk is also a good partner, as it can deal with Steel-types, Sawk, and Musharna. This variant of Dragonair is Taunt bait, which attracts Pokemon such as Liepard and Misdreavus to prevent Dragonair from using her support moves. Gurdurr and Sawk can easily deal with the former, while Charizard can take a Will-O-Wisp from the latter and proceed to KO it.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>With powerful special attacks at her arsenal, such as Draco Meteor and Dragon Pulse, Dragonair has the option of running a special attacking set. However, her mediocre Special Attack prevents this set from being successful. Leftovers can be used for any of Dragonair's sets, but she really needs the defensive boosts that Eviolite has to offer. Alternatively, an offensive Dragon Dance set can try to bring out Dragonair's offensive prowess, but her lackluster defenses are exposed even more so, making it difficult to set up. Flamethrower and Fire Blast can be used to deal with Steel-types, but Dragonair has no place for them in her movesets. Substitute can also be used in the bulky Dragon Dance set to try to set up Dragon Dance, but with a lack of reliable recovery, Dragonair would be wearing herself down.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Even with Eviolite, Dragonair doesn't stand a chance against many of the offensive Pokemon in NU. In general, almost every Ice-type in NU can defeat Dragonair. Choice Scarf Jynx can outspeed Dragonair even at +3 and deal over 50% to it with Ice Beam, making it a solid choice in picking off a weakened Dragonair, while Choice Specs Glaceon can OHKO Dragonair from full HP. Sawk with Mold Breaker can cut through Marvel Scale, making Dragonair even more vulnerable to physical attacks. Dragonair still has a hard time with physical walls, even with Dragon Dance. Steel-types, specifically Bastiodon and Klang, can easily wall Dragonair and force it out in some way. Specifically, Bastiodon is capable of Roaring away Dragonair's boosts and Klang can set up alongside it with Shift Gear. Encore users, especially Liepard and Volbeat, can lock Dragonair into Rest, Sleep Talk, or Dragon Dance and force it to switch out. Offensively, Pokemon with Choice Band can break through the bulky Dragon Dance set, namely Braviary, Sawk, and Golurk. Finding a Pokemon to handle Dragonair isn't the most difficult task, as her decent is often not good enough to withstand the strongest attackers in the tier.</p>