[Overview]

<p>Although the cuddly Duosion might seem harmless at first glance, it is actually quite threatening. Like its older brother Reuniclus, Duosion can use moves such as Calm Mind and Trick Room to great effect. In fact, Duosion even has the exact same Special Attack stat as Reuniclus! Duosion can equip itself with an Eviolite to make its seemingly subpar defenses usable, and while it appears to be badly hurt by its obscenely low Speed stat, this can be turned into an advantage when using Trick Room. Moreover, Duosion also has access to Magic Guard, which makes it immune to all kinds of passive damage from Stealth Rock to Toxic.</p>

<p>However, despite these brilliant perks, Duosion faces stiff competition for a team slot from the multiple other Psychic-types in the tier, mainly Musharna. Musharna sports better bulk than Duosion even with Duosion's Eviolite-bolstered defenses, a wider movepool, and the ability to use Leftovers or a Life Orb. Nevertheless, Duosion boasts slightly higher Special Attack, the fantastic Magic Guard and Regenerator abilities, and access to Recover to separate it from Musharna, as Musharna's Moonlight is dependent on the weather and has less PP than Recover.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Psychic / Psyshock 
move 3: Signal Beam
move 4: Recover
item: Eviolite
ability: Magic Guard
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Musharna somewhat outclasses Duosion as a Calm Mind user due to its higher bulk, Duosion's saving grace is Magic Guard. With Magic Guard, Duosion becomes immune to all forms of passive damage, including Toxic, which makes it an excellent stallbreaker. Calm Mind is the crux of the set, as it enables Duosion to boost its already stellar Special Attack alongside its mediocre Special Defense. The choice of STAB comes down to preference; Psychic has slightly higher Base Power than Psyshock, and also packs a chance of lowering the opponent's Special Defense by one stage. On the other hand, Psyshock preys on the opponent's Defense stat, which allows it to bypass specially defensive walls such as Lickilicky, Altaria, and Flareon. Lastly, Signal Beam enables Duosion to hit Dark- and Psychic-types such as Liepard and Musharna super effectively. Recover replenishes 50% of its HP every time it is used, giving it survivability.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>252 HP EVs are used alongside 252 Defense EVs with Eviolite to maximize physical bulk, enabling Duosion to set up on Pokemon such as Sawk. However, Duosion will still fall to repeated attacks from powerful physical attackers such as Golurk, Braviary, Eelektross, and Samurott. Alternatively, an EV spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA could be used to hit harder, especially after a Calm Mind boost; however, the loss of physical bulk is especially notable when attempting to take even weak neutral hits such as Garbodor's Gunk Shot. Hidden Power Fighting could be used over Signal Beam to hit Steel-types such as Probopass, while still hitting Dark-types such as Liepard super effectively. However, other than Klang, Steel-types can't do much against Duosion, and there aren't even that many to begin with in NU. If you choose to use Hidden Power Fighting, however, Skuntank and other Pursuit users are recommended partners when Duosion is using Hidden Power Fighting, because both Psychic and Hidden Power Fighting moves are resisted by Psychic-types. Finally, Hidden Power Ground can be used in order to hit Skuntank super effectively; it also hits Steel-types such as Bastiodon super effectively.</p>

<p>Due to Duosion's vulnerability to Dark-types such as Skuntank, Fighting-types such as Gurdurr and Sawk are recommended partners to take them on. Additionally, the aforementioned Fighting-types are useful to combat Steel-types such as Probopass, Bastiodon, and Klang, who resist both Psychic and Signal Beam. Skuntank makes an excellent partner due to its typing and arsenal of Dark-type moves, which make it optimal for taking out Ghost-types such as Haunter, as well as for destroying Psychic-types such as Musharna or other Duosion who might try to set up alongside Duosion in a Calm Mind war. Together, Duosion, Skuntank, and Gurdurr make a strong Psychic / Dark / Fighting core, a core which populates the metagame due to its excellent synergy and ability to take each other's counters out. Rock-types, particularly Golem and Regirock, make effective partners due to their ability to set up Stealth Rock for Duosion, while in return, Duosion can take most Fighting-type attacks aimed at them.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room 
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Signal Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Ground
item: Eviolite / Life Orb
ability: Regenerator / Magic Guard
nature: Quiet
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA
ivs: 3 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Due to Duosion's abysmal Speed and high Special Attack, it excels as a Trick Room sweeper. Trick Room is the crux of the set, and enables Duosion to bypass its poor Speed stat for a few turns, while Psychic is the obligatory STAB move. Signal Beam is the coverage move of choice, as it hits Dark- and Psychic-types super effectively, while Hidden Power Ground decimates opposing Steel-types and Skuntank, who resist this set's other moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is simple: 252 HP EVs incrase Duosion's bulk, while 252 Special Attack EVs let it hit as hard as possible. A Quiet nature is preferred to increase Duosion's damage output while simultaneously lowering its Speed, both of which are ideal for Trick Room sweeping. Additionally, 3 Speed IVs are required for a 70 Base Power Hidden Power Ground. If using Regenerator on this particular Duosion set, Eviolite is the recommended item of choice. With Regenerator and Eviolite, Duosion can comfortably switch into Sawk, force it out while simultaneously setting up Trick Room, and heal off the damage when Duosion is eventually forced out. Duosion will have a higher amount of HP even after switching into entry hazards, unless your opponent has managed to set up Stealth Rock and three layers of Spikes. Otherwise, use Magic Guard alongside Life Orb for increased power, as Magic Guard negates Life Orb recoil.</p> 

<p>Duosion has a few other moves in its arsenal that it can use on this set. Shadow Ball and Hidden Power Fighting can replace Signal Beam and Hidden Power Ground, respectively, as it gives similar coverage, but Shadow Ball hits Psychic-types slightly hard than Signal Beam does; however, Duosion fails to beat Skuntank effectively this way. Recover could be used over Hidden Power for healing, which grants Duosion some survivability.</p>

<p>Due to Duosion's weakness to Dark-types such as Skuntank, partners who can take on the aforementioned Pokemon are recommended. Gurdurr is a great choice for a partner due to its ability to wall and eliminate Skuntank, as well as Steel-types such as Probopass and Bastiodon. Similarly, Sawk makes a good partner, although it's not as bulky as Gurdurr. Zweilous makes a fine teammate, as it can break walls with its high-powered Outrage, which allows Duosion to sweep later in the game. Additionally, Zweilous can take Ghost-type attacks aimed at Duosion, while Duosion can switch into Fighting-type attacks aimed at Zweilous. In general, slow, bulky Pokemon such as Eelektross, Golurk, and Muk make decent teammates because of their ability to ability to take advantage of Trick Room due to their low Speed.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Unfortunately, Duosion doesn't have many options outside of the ones listed. With Light Clay and Regenerator, it can become a good dual screens user with Reflect and Light Screen, as it can come in multiple times throughout the match and set up screens while also checking threats such as Sawk. Alternatively, a defensive Trick Room set is usable, utilizing Duosion's decent bulk in order to set up Trick Room consistently throughout a battle. A set of Trick and Flame Orb with Magic Guard can cripple incoming physical attackers such as Skuntank. While the idea of a Choice Specs set seems good, it is generally better done by Gardevoir, who sports better natural bulk and the same Special Attack stat. Duosion can also run a few other coverage moves, namely Thunder, Energy Ball, and Flash Cannon; however, these all add little to Duosion's coverage.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Skuntank is Duosion's best counter, as it packs an immunity to Duosion's Psychic-type STAB moves while taking neutral damage from Signal Beam. In addition, Skuntank can decimate Duosion with its Dark-type attacks, namely Pursuit, Sucker Punch, and Crunch, while only fearing Hidden Power Ground. Mandibuzz can also shut down most Duosion thanks to its immunity to Psychic and access to a speedy Taunt. Specially defensive behemoths such as Lickilicky can take even Hidden Power Fighting from Duosion and use Dragon Tail to remove its accumulated boosts, although Duosion can use Psyshock to deal more damage to Lickilicky. Bastiodon can take on Calm Mind Duosion that lack a super effective Hidden Power, while specially defensive variants can take even Hidden Power Fighting or Hidden Power Ground and use Roar to remove its boosts; Bastiodon even has Sturdy to prevent it from being OHKOed if Duosion manages to accumulate a few boosts. However, Trick Room Duosion can nearly OHKO Bastiodon with Hidden Power. Golurk can utterly destroy Duosion with its Iron Fist-boosted Shadow Punch, and Pinsir can wreck Duosion with X-Scissor while nabbing a Moxie boost. Provided that Klang is healthy, it can set up on Duosion with Shift Gear and finish it off with Gear Grind before possibly sweeping the rest of its team. If worse comes to worst, Trick and Knock Off from the likes of Tangela and Rotom-S can remove Duosion's Eviolite, making Duosion significantly easier to take out.</p>