[Overview]

<p>Eelektross is undoubtedly one of the scariest Pokemon for a defensive team to face, and it's not surprising why this is so; with excellent attacking stats, an expansive offensive movepool with great coverage options, and a slow Volt Switch and U-turn, it can be both unpredictable and incredibly difficult to wall. On top of that, Eelektross's bulk allows it to take a few hits, and it has no weaknesses that opposing teams can prey upon. Unfortunately, more offensive teams can typically make it hard for Eelektross to do its job, as in spite of its lack of weaknesses, it has very few resistances, and because of its poor Speed, it's not very difficult to outpace it.</p>

[SET]
name: Eebeltross
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Flamethrower
move 4: Giga Drain
item: Expert Belt
nature: Rash
evs: 140 Atk / 244 SpA / 124 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Eelektross's great mixed attacking stats and fantastic coverage in order to break through nearly every wall and tank in NU. With this set, Eelektross can also serve as an effective lure; if you need to take out a special wall to open up a sweep later on, you can use special attacks to bait the opponent into bringing it in, then to take it out with Superpower. Thunderbolt is used on this set as Eelektross's most powerful and reliable STAB and helps it take on bulky Water-types, such as Alomomola and Mantine. Superpower helps make Eelektross very difficult to wall; most Pokemon that can take a hit from the special side don't want to take a strong physical attack, and many of the tier's special walls are weak to Fighting-type attacks. Flamethrower is used for additional coverage to help beat Grass-types, such as Tangela and Vileplume, which would wall this set otherwise. Finally, Giga Drain is used as a way of beating the Ground-types that can switch into a Thunderbolt, and it provides a form of recovery for Eelektross.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread for this set allows Eelektross to outspeed minimum Speed Alomomola and KO it before it can use Toxic and to 2HKO common special walls such as Regice, Lickilicky, Audino, and Zweilous. A bulkier spread of 112 HP / 140 Atk / 248 SpA / 8 Spe can be used to help take hits better if you are less concerned about outpacing some of the walls that the set aims to beat. Expert Belt is the ideal item choice, as it can help Eelektross bluff a Choice Specs set better while also maintaining its vitality throughout the battle. A Life Orb can be used to 2HKO Altaria without Stealth Rock, but it has little use otherwise.</p>

<p>Finding partners for this set isn't very difficult; basically anything that appreciates the opponent's walls and tanks eliminated enjoys working with Eelektross. Examples of such Pokemon include Ludicolo, Carracosta, and Jynx. Eelektross does appreciate some assistance from its team members as well. Spikes support can help it attain the 2HKO against opposing Piloswine and Roselia, as well as the OHKO against specially defensive Seismitoad. Scolipede, Roselia, and Garbodor are all effective users of the move, and Eelektross can take Flying-type attacks aimed at the first two as well as Ground-type attacks aimed at the third. Stealth Rock support is also helpful, as it can bring certain Pokemon, such as Articuno, Lapras, and Regice, down to a range where Eelektross can OHKO them. Both Golem and Seismitoad can set up Stealth Rock while maintaining offensive momentum. Finally, while uncommon, this set still struggles against Dragon-types, such as Altaria, Shelgon, and Dragonair. Jynx can outspeed all of these Pokemon—the last two even after a Dragon Dance if they are running their standard bulky spreads—and take them out with Ice Beam.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Flamethrower
move 4: Thunderbolt
item: Leftovers / Choice Specs
nature: Modest
evs: 172 HP / 252 SpA / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set uses Eelektross's fantastic special movepool and great Special Attack stat to become a hard-hitting attacker. Volt Switch allows it to serve as a slow scout in order to keep up offensive momentum and bring fast, frail teammates to the field safely. Because of STAB and Eelektross's above average Special Attack, Volt Switch will also hit many Pokemon for solid damage. Giga Drain offers Eelektross a way of defeating Ground-types that keep it from using Volt Switch, and it provides a form of recovery. Grass-types also keep Eelektross from spamming its STAB moves; Flamethrower is a way of handling them and alleviating this issue. Finally, Thunderbolt gives Eelektross a more powerful and reliable STAB to spam when scouting is unnecessary, such as when it finds itself facing bulky special walls.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread used invests fully in Special Attack with enough Speed EVs to outspeed Tangela in order to avoid a Sleep Powder. The rest of the EVs are used in HP in order to further augment Eelektross's good bulk. Leftovers is the primary item of choice, giving Eelektross some nice passive recovery and helping it to pivot in and out throughout the match, but Choice Specs can be used for additional power to beat out many of the bulkier Pokemon in NU. Expert Belt is a perfectly viable option as well, giving Eelektross a bit more power and allowing it to switch up moves. Hidden Power Ice can be used over Giga Drain if you would like a better way of handling Dragon-type Pokemon without giving up the ability to beat Ground-types, but be aware that you'll lose out on super effective coverage against Thick Fat Piloswine and Seismitoad as well as the recovery that Giga Drain provides. Finally, Acid Spray can be used over either Thunderbolt or Volt Switch as a way of taking down some of the bulkier special walls in the tier.</p>

<p>There are many different Pokemon that partner well with this set. Swellow, Zangoose, and Ursaring all appreciate Eelektross's slow Volt Switch, which helps bring them in safely to activate their status Orbs. Other users of Volt Switch and U-turn also pair well with this set, as they can overwhelm the opponent with offensive momentum and give them as few free turns as possible. Primeape, Swellow, Probopass, and most Electric-type Pokemon can all work alongside Eelektross for this reason. Any user of Volt Switch or U-turn appreciates entry hazard support as well due to its ability to force switches; Eelektross is no exception to this. Scolipede is a great offensive Spikes user, and Golem, Golurk, and Seismitoad are all great offensive Stealth Rock users. Because Eelektross struggles against some of the special walls in the tier, Fighting-types work well alongside it. Gurdurr and Sawk are good examples of this, as they can both beat Lickilicky, Audino, Bastiodon, and Probopass fairly easily.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: U-turn
move 2: ThunderPunch
move 3: Superpower / Drain Punch
move 4: Aqua Tail
item: Choice Band / Expert Belt
nature: Adamant
evs: 132 HP / 252 Atk / 124 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a physical set, Eelektross can use its great physical movepool and attacking prowess to muscle through many of the tier's bulkiest Pokemon. U-turn is the first move on this set, and it gives Eelektross a fantastic way to gain momentum for the team. Unlike Volt Switch, only one Pokemon—Shedinja—is immune to U-turn. On top of that, Grass-types are the most common types of Pokemon to switch into Eelektross, and U-turn can deal some solid damage to many of them. ThunderPunch is used as a reliable choice for STAB with a handy chance of paralyzing opponents. Superpower is used for its great power, but if the stat drops are unappealing, Drain Punch is a viable alternative that gives Eelektross a form of recovery. Finally, Aqua Tail hits Ground-type Pokemon that keep Eelektross from using its STAB hard.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs on this set are used to outspeed Alomomola, with the rest thrown into Attack and HP for added power and bulk. Choice Band is the first item choice on this set, as it cannot rely on super effective coverage as well as other sets can, but Expert Belt can still be used in order to lure in Ground-type Pokemon and hit them with Aqua Tail. Crunch is a decent option over Aqua Tail as it gives Eelektross a way of hitting certain Grass-type Pokemon, such as Exeggutor and Vileplume, for good damage, and it has near perfect coverage alongside its choice of Fighting-type attack. However, keep in mind that Eelektross would rather just U-turn against these Pokemon anyway. Wild Charge might seem like a better choice than ThunderPunch, but if you use it, Eelektross will suffer heavy recoil against Alomomola.</p>

<p>Even with Aqua Tail, certain Ground-type Pokemon, such as Torterra and Seismitoad, can cause problems for Eelektross; Jynx and Serperior are good options to take care of them. Pokemon with great physical bulk, such as Tangela and Vileplume, can be very difficult for Eelektross to beat. Strong special attackers, such as Charizard and Exeggutor, have little problems against them. Frailer offensive Pokemon love being able to come in with ease, and Eelektross's slow U-turn gives them this opportunity. Swellow, Ursaring, and Zangoose can all capitalize upon free chances to get into battle and activate their status Orbs. Finally, Spikes and Stealth Rock support is very appreciated, as U-turn allows Eelektross to force many switches. Scolipede is a great offensive Spikes user, and Golem, Golurk, and Seismitoad are all great offensive Stealth Rock users.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Despite its expansive movepool, most of Eelektross's best options have already been covered. Coil is probably the most viable other option, and using it with an EV spread of 248 HP / 100 Atk / 36 Def / 124 Spe with an Adamant nature allows Eelektross to outspeed Alomomola and retain some good offensive capabilities without a boost. The problem with a Coil set is that its few resistances make it difficult to find opportunities to set up. Eelektross is usually much better off using its great mixed attacking stats to hit hard right off the bat. For the same reason, Charge Beam is generally an inferior choice. If you are considering a Coil set, Zap Cannon might seem like a good option, but Eelektross prefers to use the Attack boosts to its advantage over the accuracy boosts. Acrobatics is an interesting option to help Eelektross beat Grass-type Pokemon, but the lack of an item needed to use it to full effect is unappealing. Rock Slide is another option, but its coverage is a bit redundant with Eelektross's STAB, and its flinch chance will rarely come in handy because of Eelektross's low Speed. Knock Off can be used on any of Eelektross's sets to cause problems for the Pokemon that switch in to wall it. Finally, Thunder Wave and Toxic can be good options to hinder the Pokemon it cannot beat on its own.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Eelektross is a Pokemon that is incredibly difficult to counter, as it is so strong and unpredictable. The easiest way to defeat Eelektross is to try and keep up offensive pressure against the opponent's team and never give it a free switch. If this is not possible, you might be forced to revenge kill it with strong attackers, such as Sawk and Charizard. With Mold Breaker, Sawk, Rampardos, and Pinsir can also use Earthquake to hit Eelektross for super effective damage. Probably the only true counters to any Eelektross set are Dragonair and Shelgon, as it rarely carries a move to hit them for super effective damage and the coverage moves it has to hit them with generally won't hit hard enough to take them out. Meanwhile, both of these Pokemon can set up Dragon Dances against it and later Rest to recover the damage they've taken.</p>

<p>Outside of trying to counter every set with one Pokemon, each individual set has its own checks and counters. Camerupt, Ampharos, and Zweilous all wall the special set very well. Lickilicky and Audino also do well against the special set, as they can come in on any move and either stay in to wall non-Choice Specs variants or pivot out into a better check against Choice Specs variants. Additionally, Fraxure can set up against the special set, though it doesn't appreciate taking a Choice Specs Thunderbolt. As for the physical set, Torterra, Tangela, Vileplume, and Seismitoad can all take it on relatively well. Still, all of them but Tangela don't appreciate taking repeated U-turns. Finally, the mixed set is incredibly difficult to wall, as very few Pokemon can survive two consecutive hits. One of the only viable Pokemon that can do this is Altaria, which can survive a Thunderbolt after Stealth Rock and Roost to recover the damage it took. Misdreavus can also survive one Thunderbolt, but it can't do much back to Eelektross.</p>