[Overview]

<p>When looking at Electrode, its base 140 Speed stat instantly jumps out; this makes Electrode the second fastest Pokemon in NU, only outsped by Ninjask. Its Special Attack is just good enough to complement its excellent Speed, allowing it to be an efficient revenge killer. This role is further enhanced by Electrode's good STAB, which lets it revenge kill important threats such as Swellow and Samurott. Unfortunately, Electrode is very frail, thus being open to Choice Scarf users and even uninvested attacks. It also has a shallow movepool, which limits its revenge killing potential. Because Electrode's Special Attack is still pretty mediocre overall, it fails to do much to common defensive Pokemon such as Lickilicky and Regice. Furthermore, Electrode has a lot of competition from the similarly built Electabuzz and Zebstrika, as the former has more power, while the latter has a much better movepool, and both are still fast enough to be effective revenge killers.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Volt Switch
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Signal Beam / Taunt
item: Life Orb
ability: Aftermath / Static
nature: Timid
evs: 84 HP / 252 SpA / 172 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Electrode's excellent Speed and usable Special Attack, it can be a prominent revenge killer to frail, non-Choice Scarfed threats such as Charizard. Thunderbolt is Electrode's primary STAB, as it is very powerful and reliable and maims Flying- and Water-types. Volt Switch is yet another Electric STAB, but it trades a bit of power for the ability to gain momentum and get Electrode out of tough situations, such as when facing an opponent that can OHKO. Hidden Power Grass is a good coverage move to hit Ground-types super effectively, OHKOing Seismitoad and 2HKOing Golurk and offensive Piloswine after Stealth Rock. Signal Beam hits Grass-, Psychic-, and Dark-types for super effective damage, allowing Electrode to revenge kill Exeggutor and Shiftry, among others, with ease. Taunt, however, is a viable alternative, as it stops the likes of specially defensive Ludicolo from setting up on Electrode and also prevents support Pokemon such as Lickilicky and Audino from Wish stalling it; Taunt is also one of the few things Electrode has over other Electric-types such as Electabuzz and Zebstrika. Beware though, as ditching Signal Beam will leave Electrode walled by the commonly seen Grass-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread allows Electrode to outrun Jolly Swellow and Adamant Choice Scarf Braviary. A Modest nature can be used, but Electrode will then fail outspeed positive natured Swellow. Choice Specs can be used to provide a greater damage output, but this doesn't gain Electrode any specific KOs, and it would much rather have the freedom to switch moves, especially considering that its main STAB does nothing to common Ground-type Pokemon. Expert Belt can be used to bluff a Choice set and catch Ground-types off guard, but Electrode desperately needs the power Life Orb provides for its attacks at all times. Both of Electrode's abilities trigger when it is hit by a contact move.Aftermath is generally more useful as the residual damage it supplies can be just what is needed to deal with a key threat. However, Static can still come in handy as it paralyzes opponents, thus supporting the team. Hidden Power Ice can be used over Hidden Power Grass to hit Roselia and Dragon-types, but the threats that Hidden Power Grass hits are much more significant. Foul Play OHKOes Golurk and 2HKOes most Eelektross after Stealth Rock, but unlike Electrode's other attacks, it is quite situational.</p>

<p>Electrode appreciates entry hazard support as this nets it some extra KOs, such as a 2HKO on Golurk; Roselia is a good choice as it appreciates Electrode's ability to remove Flying-types from play. Misdreavus is also a good teammate, as it is immune to Ground-type attacks and can Heal Bell away the paralysis that would otherwise render Electrode useless. Rotom-S and Electrode form a great core, as Electrode lures in Ground-types for Rotom-S to switch into and defeat with Hidden Power Grass. The two can then spam Volt Switch with little to no worries. Fighting-types such as Sawk and Primeape are excellent teammates, as they can take out Audino, Lickilicky, and Regice, Pokemon that give Electrode a lot of trouble.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Rain Dance set is an option, although it's outclassed by Prankster users such as Volbeat. Do note that Thunder should always be used over Thunderbolt if Electrode is being used on a rain team though. Electrode has a few more useful moves that you might be interested in: Magnet Rise allows it to evade Ground-type attacks for a couple of turns, although Electrode has trouble finding room for it, as well as opportunities to set it up. Electro Ball can replace Thunderbolt, as it deals more damage to slow Pokemon such as Lickilicky, but Electrode is generally much more effective against fast, frail threats than against slow, bulky ones, rendering Thunderbolt as the superior option overall. Explosion can be used to go out with a bang, but coming off of Electrode's pathetic Attack stat, it won't be doing much to anything with moderate bulk. Electrode can opt to run a fast supportive set utilizing Thunder Wave or Toxic, Taunt, Thunderbolt, and Hidden Power Ice or Grass, but its terrible bulk is a big deterrent. Charge Beam can be used as Electrode's only way to set up, but it is weak and unreliable, making straight damage with Thunderbolt the superior option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Electrode's bad bulk makes it easy to defeat; just use any Pokemon with moderate special bulk that isn't weak to its STAB. Paralyzing it will render it completely useless; Lickilicky can use Body Slam and Regice can use Thunder Wave. Both can also take hits from Electrode day and night; the latter just has to watch out for Taunt. Ground-types are immune to Electrode's STAB, and Camerupt doesn't take much from Hidden Power Grass either; they can all OHKO back with their Ground-type STABs. Dragon-types are also good answers as most of them resist almost every move Electrode commonly runs; they can then set up on it and sweep the rest of its team. Beware though, as Hidden Power Ice variants can hit them for a lot of damage. Grass-types such as Roselia and Vileplume are not afraid of anything Electrode can do and can retaliate back with their STAB attacks. They must be careful of Taunt however, as a well timed Taunt can prevent them from healing off the damage caused by Electrode. Bulky Electric-types such as Ampharos and Eelektross can easily take hits from Electrode, the former can also cripple it with paralysis and the latter can 2HKO with Flamethrower or Return, depending on the set it's running. Once again, basically anything with moderate bulk and above average offensive presence can take it out.</p>​