[Overview]

<p>Exploud has only one role in the NU metagame, and that is being a specially based wallbreaker. Scrappy allows Exploud to break through the Ghost-types that trouble most Normal-type attackers without missing a beat. With a decent offensive movepool rich with coverage options and above average attacking stats, it would seem like it excels at this role. Sadly, while it has the right moves to threaten many defensive Pokemon, its offenses are just shy of being powerful in comparison to the average offensive threat. Exploud's low Speed and mediocre defenses are another sour note, as it cannot stand against the power of offensive teams. Together, these factors usually make Exploud a liability in NU's fast-paced metagame.</p>

[Set]
name: Wallbreaker
move 1: Hyper Voice
move 2: Surf
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Low Kick
item: Life Orb
ability: Scrappy
nature: Naive
evs: 68 Atk / 252 SpA / 188 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Exploud's above average attacking stats make it a viable wallbreaker. Hyper Voice provides Exploud with STAB and works well in conjunction with Scrappy to deter Ghost-types from switching in. Surf hits the Rock-types that resist Hyper Voice, while Fire Blast targets Steel-types. Low Kick takes advantage of Exploud's usable Attack and hits several of the special walls that take Exploud's other moves easily, most notably Lickilicky and Regice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The power boost provided by Life Orb makes it the only viable item. With Life Orb, Exploud can 2HKO Lickilicky after Stealth Rock damage with Low Kick. The Speed EVs allow Exploud to outspeed Modest Ludicolo. Unfortunately, it is unable to outspeed Timid Ludicolo or any other mildly fast attacker, making it vulnerable to offensive teams. Hammer Arm is a very viable option over Low Kick because it can inflict more damage upon Audino and Zweilous, but the Speed drop means that Exploud will still lose to Miltank. Ice Beam can hit Altaria hard, but it doesn't have much use otherwise. Entry hazard setters are very useful for Exploud to make up for its average power. Golurk and Seismitoad are good teammates to set up Stealth Rock, which allows Exploud to gain KOs on Misdreavus, Lickilicky, and Torkoal. Scolipede and Roselia are good Spikes users, giving Exploud the opportunity to score KOs on several Pokemon, including Golurk, Bastiodon, and Alomomola. Pokemon that enjoy the removal of physical walls are good teammates for Exploud, with Kangaskhan, Golurk, and Samurott being good examples. Fighting-types, such as Sawk and Primeape, are notable for appreciating Exploud's ability to beat Misdreavus and Weezing. Teammates that can handle opposing Fighting-types, such as Musharna and Misdreavus, are very beneficial. Misdreavus is especially helpful because it can also act as a spinblocker to prevent the entry hazards Exploud benefits from being easily removed.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Exploud has a decent movepool that contains interesting options such as Shadow Ball, Extrasensory, and Icy Wind, but the moves already listed are usually the best options. Taunt can be useful to allow Exploud to act as an anti-lead and also disrupt stall teams though. Expert Belt can be used to boost Exploud's moves without causing recoil, but Life Orb's boost is generally superior because Exploud doesn't take attacks very well and Expert Belt doesn't boost its STAB. Choice Specs can also be used, but Exploud is very weak for a Choice Specs attacker and appreciates being able to change moves. Soundproof is somewhat helpful on Baton Pass chains, as the ability gives Exploud a helpful immunity to Roar and Perish Song.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Specially defensive Altaria is a decent counter if Exploud lacks Ice Beam, as it isn't 2HKOed by any other move. Fighting-types such as Sawk and Primeape easily OHKO Exploud, though most can't safely switch in. Gurdurr is a notable exception, as it can take any hit thanks to its good bulk and recover with Drain Punch. While it has excellent neutral coverage against most of the tier, Exploud is not that powerful, so many Pokemon can simply take a hit and retaliate back hard. As Exploud is relatively slow and frail, most offensive Pokemon can easily outspeed and take it out.</p>