[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Fearow looks like your average Normal / Flying Pokemon. With decent base 100 Speed and base 90 Attack, many might see Swellow as a faster and stronger version of Fearow. However, Fearow is the only Flying-type Pokemon that has access to Drill Run; this allows Fearow to heavily dent bulky Rock- and Steel-types, such as Regirock, Golem, and Probopass. Fearow is also gifted with Sniper, which can be extremely deadly when paired with Drill Run. Combine these merits with a Choice Band, and Fearow becomes somewhat powerful. The downside to Fearow is that it is unable to learn Brave Bird, making it inferior to Swellow and Braviary in this respect. Fearow also has a weakness to the ubiquitous Stealth Rock and poor defenses, making it quite the glass cannon. However, when played to its strengths, true to its name, Fearow can really strike fear into its opponents' hearts.</p>

[SET] 
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Drill Peck
move 2: Return
move 3: Drill Run
move 4: U-turn
item: Choice Band / Life Orb
ability: Sniper
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>A Choice Band set is always a viable option for any Pokemon with decent Speed and Attack, and Fearow is no exception. A Life Orb can be used if you dislike being locked into one move, but the power difference is substantial and the residual damage will quickly build up. Drill Peck is the obligatory STAB move for Fearow. Return is the secondary STAB move of choice, and is one of Fearow's strongest options. Drill Run is the main reason to run Fearow over the other powerful Flying-types in the tier, as it allows Fearow to hit Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon for super effective damage, breaking down Pokemon such as Relicanth, Golem, and Probopass. U-turn enables Fearow to scout and is mostly filler because Fearow has a shallow movepool.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The EVs maximize Fearow's Speed and Attack, allowing it to hit as fast and as hard as possible. A Jolly nature is preferred as it lets Fearow Speed tie Linoone, Raichu, and Slaking and outspeed Haunter. However, an Adamant nature can be used if you only care about outspeeding Rotom-A, as Fearow appreciates all the power it can get. Quick Attack can be used over U-turn to finish off weakened opponents. Likewise, Pursuit can be used to pick off fleeing opponents.</p> 

<p>Since Fearow isn't a top tier threat, support is needed in order for it to bust holes in the opponent. Wartortle makes a great partner, as it provides both Rapid Spin support and handles most bulky Rock-types that give Fearow trouble with its STAB Water-type moves. Strong Fighting-types such as Sawk or Gurdurr make great partners as well, as both Pokemon can take on bulky Rock-types that gives Fearow problems. Pokemon such as Lickilicky and Leafeon also make great partners for Fearow, as both provide Heal Bell and Wish support for Fearow. Fearow helps them both out as it can KO most Grass- and Fighting-types, letting these Pokemon support the team to their full potential. Also, when looking at defensive synergy, Luxray and Raichu are able to beat most of Fearow's offensive counters as both Pokemon are resistant to Electric-type attacks, with Raichu getting a boost thanks to Lightningrod. Fearow helps both out as being a reliable switch in to Ground-type attacks, keeping both Electric-type Pokemon alive. Finally, Probopass has Magnet Pull to keep Steel-type Pokemon that give Fearow trouble at bay, making an excellent partner.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Fearow has few other options; a Choice Scarf set could be used to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame. Fearow can use Baton Pass, but it is greatly outclassed by Ninjask, and Baton Pass is illegal with Sniper. Heat Wave, Tri Attack, and Hidden Power can be used on a special set, but Fearow has a pitiful Special Attack stat, therefore this is not recommended. A Scope Lens can be used to land more critical hits, but this is very luck-based and unadvised. Fearow can attempt a defensive set with FeatherDance and Roost, but due to Fearow's low defenses as well as its poor defensive typing, this is not recommended.</p>

[Checks and Counters] 

<p>Even though it has the word fear in its name, Fearow is often the one shaking in fear of its opponents. Even with a Choice Band, Fearow lacks the power to beat bulky Pokemon such as Mandibuzz and Rotom-A. Mandibuzz can easily tanks its attacks and hurt it with Foul Play, while Rotom-A resists most of Fearow's moves, barring Return, and can KO with Volt Switch. Faster revenge killers such as Kadabra and Electabuzz can easily outspeed and KO with their respective STAB moves. Tauros has Intimidate to buffer the hit as it switches in, and can easily outspeed and OHKO Fearow. Miltank, Alomomola, Metang, and Regirock can tank all of Fearow's moves and stall it out. Lunatone and Solrock make great counters to Fearow, because not only do they have good bulk, their Rock typing and Levitate ability also grant them resistances to Fearow. Metang, Regirock, Solrock, and Lunatone can even set up Stealth Rock to weaken Fearow every time it comes in. Due to its reliance on low Base Power moves and its general frailty, anything that can take a hit and retaliate can be considered a check.</p>