[Overview]

<p>Flareon isn't a very fortunate Pokemon in NU, and it's not difficult to see why. Firstly, Flareon is vulnerable to all forms of entry hazards, specifically Stealth Rock, which means it must think twice before switching. Its movepool is very scarce, so it's fairly easy to predict which set it is running. Finally, Flareon's Speed holds it back from performing a sweep. With all of this taken into account, there doesn't seem to be much of a reason to use Flareon.</p>

<p>Flareon's excellent base 110 Special Defense is that reason, and when paired with Wish, it gives Flareon the opportunity to function as both a special wall and supporter. Flareon's fantastic Attack stat catches the eye as well. Finally, Flareon has access to Flame Charge, which raises its Speed and also allows it to function as a wallbreaker or sweeper. Honestly, however, Flareon is a mediocre Pokemon, and it requires a bit of team support to be successful.</p>

[SET]
name: Wish
move 1: Wish
move 2: Protect
move 3: Lava Plume / Flamethrower
move 4: Heal Bell / Roar / Toxic
item: Leftovers
nature: Calm
ability: Flash Fire
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Despite its bad defensive typing, Flareon can still take advantage of its excellent Special Defense. This set supports Flareon's teammates as a Wish passer and acts as a special wall. In particular, it's a great check to Jynx, but be warned that Psyshock can cut through Flareon. Flareon can also wall Fire-types, namely Charizard, along with other special attackers, such as Kadabra, Choice Specs Ampharos, and Gardevoir.</p>

<p>Wish is the staple of the set, healing Flareon's teammates whenever it can. Wish works well with Protect, as it usually guarantees that Flareon will heal itself while scouting the opponent and racking up Leftovers recovery. However, Flareon isn't all about supporting its teammates, as its decent base 95 Special Attack can be useful as well. Lava Plume is the optimal choice, as it can compensate for Flareon's pitiful Defense with its 30% burn chance. However, if more power is desired, Flamethrower is an alternative. The final moveslot is based on preference. Heal Bell makes Flareon a true team supporter, removing status conditions from both itself and its teammates. Roar turns Flareon into a decent phazer, which comes in handy against setup Pokemon, such as Calm Mind Serperior and Musharna. Finally, Toxic can be used against opposing walls, such as Alomomola, and works well with Protect. However, Toxic is not recommended with Lava Plume, as Lava Plume's good burn chance can intervene with Toxic.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Leftovers increases Flareon's durability and works very well in conjunction with Protect, and a Calm nature maximizes Flareon's Special Defense. Flash Fire allows Flareon to absorb Fire-type attacks and is better than Guts for this particular set. Fire Blast can be used for more raw power, but the loss in accuracy can be undesirable, especially when it needs to land a hit. If preferred, Flareon can use physical attacks, such as Fire Fang or Flame Charge, in the third moveset, and a Careful nature should be used.</p>

<p>Rapid Spin support is appreciated, as Flareon won't last long in the match if entry hazards are present. Wartortle is a good option, as it can take advantage of Flareon's Wish while providing good synergy with Flareon, taking any Water-, Rock-, and Ground-type attacks aimed at Flareon. Due to its low Defense stat, Flareon enjoys having physically defensive Pokemon as partners. Tangela and Alomomola are prime examples as such; the former has good synergy with Flareon and can use a Leech Seed for additional healing, while the latter also has access to Wish, forming a powerful supporting core with Flareon. This set is Taunt bait; Liepard and Misdreavus can stop Flareon cold before it can retaliate. Gurdurr is a great counter to Liepard with Drain Punch, while Skuntank (which only fears Will-O-Wisp) and Swellow can handle Misdreavus. With Heal Bell, Flareon can aid sweepers that dislike paralysis or burn, such as Braviary, Sawk, Gorebyss and Primeape. They also benefit from Wish; in return, they can deal with opposing special walls, bar Musharna. Lastly, Flash Fire can be useful to teammates that dislike Fire-type attacks, specifically Tangela, Exeggutor, and Roselia. In addition, Roselia and Tangela have good bulk with Eviolite and great synergy with Flareon.</p>

[SET]
name: Guts
move 1: Facade
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Flame Charge
move 4: Bite / Protect
item: Toxic Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Adamant
EVs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set showcases Flareon's offensive potential. While its overall bulk isn't worth bragging about, Flareon's Special Defense is still useful, as it allows Flareon to absorb many special attacks. For example, Flareon is only 2HKOed by Choice Specs Gardevoir's Psychic. Flareon can reach up to 591 Attack with Guts activated, powering through the majority of the NU tier, including Kangaskhan, Eelektross, Armaldo, and Lickilicky. It works best as a mid-game or a late-game sweeper when the majority of the opposing team is weakened.</p>

<p>Facade is the key to this set; once Guts is activated, Facade is very powerful, nearly OHKOing Ursaring. Superpower is a great coverage move, and can OHKO a 252 HP/4 Def Lickilicky, as well as dent many Steel- and Rock-type Pokemon, specifically Probopass and Carracosta. Flame Charge is Flareon's STAB move; it increases Flareon's Speed with every hit, which can turn Flareon into a fast sweeper if used correctly. With Guts activated, Flame Charge can OHKO Eviolite Roselia and 3HKO Tangela at full HP. Bite is the move of choice in the final moveslot, as it allows Flareon to fare well against Ghost-types, namely Misdreavus and Golurk. However, Protect can be useful to ensure that Guts is safely activated.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Guts and Toxic Orb are both critical aspects of this set. 252 Speed EVs allow Flareon to outspeed max Speed Timid Liepard, Kadabra, and Rapidash after a Flame Charge boost. 252 Attack EVs are mandatory, giving Flareon the raw power it needs to plow through the NU tier. An Adamant nature maximizes Flareon's Attack, but Jolly can be used for additional Speed; Flareon can outspeed Scolipede at +1 if Jolly is used. If more bulk is preferred, an EV spread of 244 HP / 252 Atk / 8 Spe could be used, allowing Flareon to outspeed 124 Speed Lickilicky and minimize damage dealt from the opponent. Quick Attack and Baton Pass are both options on this set as well. Quick Attack acts as a great priority move, which can come in handy in certain situations. Baton Pass tweaks Flareon's role to a more supportive one, as it can pass its Speed boosts from Flame Charge. Toxic is also an option; it can cripple walls that otherwise stop Flareon, specifically Alomomola. However, finding a moveslot for Toxic can be difficult, as this Flareon is more of a wallbreaker.</p>

<p>Spikes and Stealth Rock can cripple Flareon, so Rapid Spin users, such as Armaldo and Wartortle, are excellent partners. Armaldo can help Flareon offensively, while Wartortle helps Flareon defensively with Eviolite because it walls Water-types and can lower the opponent's Attack with a Scald burn. Sawk prevents Sturdy users from setting up entry hazards thanks to its ability, Mold Breaker. Flareon also enjoys entry hazard support, as entry hazards let it secure important 2HKOs and OHKOs. They also grant Flareon more opportunities to land a free Speed boost by netting KOs through Flame Charge. Bulky entry hazard setters such as Regirock are advised, as they can take physical attacks that Flareon cannot survive, such as a Life Orb Brave Bird from Braviary. Roselia is also a great Spikes setter for Flareon, as it can deal with Alomomola.</p>

<p>If you choose not to run Protect, a slow Volt Switch user such as Eelektross allows Flareon to activate Guts without taking a hit. Alomomola can wall all of Flareon's attacks, heal them off with Wish, and stall Flareon with Protect. Because of this, Substitute Seismitoad and Exeggutor are great allies to deal with Alomomola. Exeggutor can also handle the Rock- and Ground-type attacks that Flareon is weak against. Pokemon that are faster than Flareon, such as Braviary, Floatzel, and Kangaskhan, bring grief to Flareon, as they can KO it before it can retaliate. Choice Scarf users, such as Rotom-S and Sawk, can defeat most of these Pokemon. Golem, Gigalith, and Regirock can wall Flareon and KO it with their STAB moves; special attackers, notably Samurott and Gorebyss, can usually deal with them.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Fire Fang is an option for a stronger physical STAB move. While Iron Tail offers great coverage, Superpower does a similar job and also has perfect accuracy. Will-O-Wisp can deal with physical attackers, but it rarely finds a spot on Flareon's moveset. Choice items can be used on Flareon, but due to its subpar bulk and lackluster Speed, it's generally outclassed by other Choice Fire-types, such as Rapidash. Life Orb can raise Flareon's power while keeping its versatility, but the recoil damage isn't desirable. Substitute and Yawn are also viable, as it can function as a bulky Substitute user that can force switches. RestTalk is also an option for Guts Flareon, but it's not that good. Curse is an option if you wish to improve Flareon's Attack and Defense, but it's also outclassed. Finally, Flareon can work on sun teams, playing best as a weather inducer, rather than as a sweeper.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Stealth Rock is a great way to weaken Flareon. Golem can not only set up Stealth Rock, but also annihilate Flareon with Stone Edge or Earthquake. Seismitoad is a great counter to Flareon as well, as it can handle both of its standard sets without difficulty. Piloswine also fares well against Flareon. Alomomola can 2HKO Flareon with Waterfall and is only 3HKOed by a Guts-boosted Facade. Swift Swim Ludicolo and Shell Smash Gorebyss can cleanly OHKO Guts Flareon with their Water-type attacks.</p>

<p>There are many Pokemon that can easily defeat Flareon but dislike the chance of being burned. For example, Golurk is a great counter to the Wish set, as it takes little from Flareon's Lava Plume and OHKOes it in return with Earthquake. However, if its burned, Golurk will be rendered useless. Physical attackers and Choice Band users, such as Samurott, Life Orb Braviary, Floatzel, Choice Band Sawk, and Kangaskhan, can easily handle Flareon because of its low Defense stat. However, they must also be wary of a burn from Lava Plume. Gurdurr, on the other hand, can wall Flareon's attacks and can even take advantage of any status Flareon inflicts on it.</p>

<p>Flareon is pretty slow even with maximum Speed investment, so many Choice Scarf users can outspeed and KO it. Tauros can outspeed and KO +1 max Speed neutral-natured Flareon even without a Choice Scarf. On its own, Flareon is not that difficult to defeat, as many teams carry at least one of Flareon's counters.</p>