[Overview]

<p>Access to Spikes and Toxic Spikes alongside great bulk has enabled Garbodor to carve itself a niche as a bulky hazard setter. Its decent defensive typing gives it key resistances and the ability to absorb opposing Toxic Spikes, making Garbodor a great team supporter. As a result, it is a very capable Spikes setter in the metagame. Unfortunately for Garbodor, its typing is a double-edged sword, giving it weaknesses to two extremely common attacking types in NU. It also faces stiff competition as a Spiker from Scolipede, whose better offensive presence limits Garbodor's viability on offensive teams. However, no other Spiker in the metagame is as bulky or reliable as Garbodor.</p>

[SET]
name: Spikes
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Toxic
move 3: Pain Split / Toxic Spikes
move 4: Rock Blast / Gunk Shot
item: Rocky Helmet / Black Sludge
ability: Aftermath
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 240 Def / 16 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Garbodor's best set, which focuses on Garbodor's utility, bulk, and typing to the fullest. Spikes is Garbodor's best way to support its team, particularly with the switches it commonly forces, making it a staple on this set. Toxic cripples walls, such as Alomomola, that would normally have their way with Garbodor. Pain Split is Garbodor's most reliable form of recovery, which is important as its survivability is its main niche over Scolipede. Toxic Spikes can be used for further team support, but Pain Split is generally superior as it lets Garbodor stick around for a while. Besides, Toxic usually gets the job done just fine. The last moveslot prevents Garbodor from being Taunt bait; Rock Blast is a great choice for the utility it provides, notably hitting common threats such as Scolipede, Armaldo, and Haunter. Gunk Shot, on the other hand, provides a powerful STAB attack that hits decently hard off of Garbodor's good Attack stat. Most notably, it allows Garbodor to dent Fighting-types such as Sawk and Primeape.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A physically defensive EV spread makes the most out of Garbodor's resistances to Close Combat and Megahorn, allowing it to set up in the face of common threats, such as Sawk, Primeape, and Scolipede. 16 Speed EVs let Garbodor outspeed maximum Speed Golem&mdash;despite the fact that this set cannot touch Golem, outspeeding it allows Garbodor the chance to set up an extra layer of Spikes against it before dying to Earthquake. Rocky Helmet punishes many physical threats Garbodor likes to switch into, letting it stack up residual damage against them. Most importantly, it ensures Primeape can't just U-turn out against Garbodor for free. Rocky Helmet also works well in conjunction with Aftermath, letting Garbodor potentially deal over 40% in residual damage when it goes down. Black Sludge is also a viable alternative, providing passive recovery and focusing more on Garbodor's survivability. Air Balloon is another potential option for a one-time immunity to Ground-type attacks, but Garbodor loses to most Ground-types even with it. Garbodor also has several somewhat useful options in the last two slots, including Seed Bomb, Drain Punch, Clear Smog, and Protect. Seed Bomb lets Garbodor outspeed and dent common Ground-types, such as Seismitoad and Golem. Drain Punch allows Garbodor to dent Rock- and Steel-types, such as Probopass and Bastiodon, and provides a semi-reliable form of recovery. Clear Smog prevents Garbodor from being setup bait, while Protect allows Garbodor to scout the opponent's next move and helps with Toxic stalling. However, Garbodor generally does not have room for any of these moves, and thus the main options are preferred over them.</p>

<p>If you are running Toxic Spikes, Ground-types make for good partners, as they help combat the Poison-types that absorb them and can set up Stealth Rock. Garbodor lacks reliable recovery, so a Wish passer is recommended to help make up for that. Alomomola is a good partner for this role, passing enormous Wishes as well as handling Ground-types that threaten Garbodor with relative ease. Lickilicky and Audino are also good partners, as they provide decent defensive synergy and Heal Bell support as well. Sweepers also appreciate Garbodor's presence on a team to take advantage of the Spikes that it provides. Examples include Samurott, Serperior, and Sawsbuck, who all provide decent type synergy and the ability to dispose of Ground-types with their STABs. As a bonus, Swords Dance Samurott can even take out Psychic-types that threaten Garbodor with Megahorn. Finally, Ghost-types make great partners to spinblock and keep Garbodor's Spikes on the field. Misdreavus is arguably the best partner for this role, as it handles Ground-types thanks to Levitate and keeps Psychic-types in check with its Foul Play or STAB Shadow Ball.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Garbodor does not have many other viable options to choose from. Almost any offensive set it could possibly run is severely outclassed by Scolipede, who is much faster and packs a wider offensive movepool. If you're really desperate, a suicide lead with Weak Armor does have some potential; however, this wastes Garbodor's good bulk and resistances. In a similar vein, Explosion can be used, but Garbodor's longevity is its main selling point. Garbodor has a wide special movepool with moves such as Sludge Bomb, Thunderbolt, Giga Drain, and even Acid Spray, but it has an awful Special Attack stat to use them with. It has several setup options, including Curse, Stockpile, Amnesia, and Rock Polish. However, Curse does not bring out Garbodor's full potential, Stockpile and Amnesia are just wastes of a moveslot, and Rock Polish is again outclassed by Scolipede, who has access to Agility. Garbodor can set up Rain Dance and Sunny Day, but it doesn't benefit from either of them and has far better things it can be doing. Substitute is a viable option, but Garbodor usually doesn't have the room for it and would rather use free turns to set up Spikes. Finally, RestTalk can be used as a form of recovery if Pain Split doesn't cut it, but Garbodor loses far too much utility by doing so.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ground-types can easily come in on anything but the rare Seed Bomb and dispose of Garbodor with their STAB moves. Bulky Psychic-types, such as Musharna, have little to fear from Garbodor and can set up against it. Frailer Psychic-types, such as Gardevoir and Jynx, can also check it well but have difficulty switching in on an attack. Most special attackers can beat Garbodor one-on-one due to its more physically-inclined defensive typing. Ghost-types, such as Misdreavus and Haunter, are immune to Spikes, resist Garbodor's STAB, and can set up on it, though Haunter must be wary of Rock Blast due to its frailty. Both Rock- and Steel-types laugh at anything Garbodor throws at them, save for the rare Drain Punch or Seed Bomb, and can dispose of it with their Ground-type coverage moves. Finally, Rapid Spin users can rid the field of Garbodor's Spikes, defeating its purpose on a team. Additionally, all the viable spinners in the tier are capable of defeating Garbodor one-on-one, as Armaldo, Torkoal, and Wartortle are all bulky enough to take repeated Rock Blasts or Gunk Shots from it and whittle it down.</p>