[Overview]

<p>Glalie is mostly outclassed as a Spiker. Bad typing, mediocre stats, and an inconvenient matchup against common leads do not help it at all. However, it does have a niche, and that is being a decent suicide lead. With Taunt, Spikes, and Explosion, Glalie can often set up several layers of Spikes while preventing opposing entry hazards and is often useful for offensive teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Suicide Spiker
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Explosion
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Focus Sash
ability: Inner Focus
nature: Hasty / Naive
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe


[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set allows Glalie to bring tremendous support to offensive Spikes-stacking teams. Spikes brings many opponents into KO range and helps offensive teammates in general. With Glalie's decent Speed allowing it to outpace most leads bar Scolipede, Taunt is a great move that prevents them from setting up entry hazards of their own. Explosion allows Glalie to go out with a bang after laying down Spikes and can hurt many frail opponents. Glalie also outspeeds all of the spinners in NU, and with Explosion, it can kill itself and prevent the opponent from using Rapid Spin, thus preserving its Spikes for another turn. Ice Beam is capable of 2HKOing Golem and Golurk, though most of the time, Glalie would rather be setting up Spikes.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Ice Fang and Avalanche are alternatives to Ice Beam that allow Glalie to nab a 2HKO against Roselia, but they actually fail to 2HKO Golem, which is more common. Ice Shard is another option, as it is a priority move that allows Glalie to grab some small damage and gives it a chance to OHKO Jumpluff before it uses Sleep Powder.</p>

<p>Because Glalie gives its team such great Spikes support, teammates that can take advantage of Spikes are appreciated. For example, Charizard, Swellow, and Primeape love Spikes support to nab extra KOs and force switches. They also prefer to have their side clear of entry hazards and can take advantage of the free switch provided by Explosion. Like with any suicide lead, spinblockers are good teammates as they can keep the Spikes up after Glalie has fainted. Golurk and Misdreavus are effective spinblockers, and the latter even enjoys Spikes being up on the opponent's side of the field. Because Rock-type opponents, such as Golem and Armaldo, often threaten Glalie, teammates that can set up on or threaten them are appreciated. Gorebyss and Samurott can easily set up on Rock-types and also benefit from Spikes to score additional kills.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Icy Wind is an option to slow down faster leads and switch-ins before using Explosion. Earthquake can be used to catch the likes of Probopass and Bastiodon by surprise. Glalie can use Rain Dance and act as a rain setter which can also set up Spikes and give free switches to teammates with Explosion. Super Fang can be used to deal a huge chunk of damage to things that lack reliable recovery, such as Probopass and Regirock, and help weaken walls for offensive teams to take advantage of. Toxic can be used to cripple some walls like Regirock and Alomomola. Body Slam can be used to help spread paralysis for the team, although Glalie is better off setting up Spikes, Exploding, and letting its teammates do the rest of the work. A Normal Gem can be used to beef up the power of Explosion, but without Focus Sash, Glalie is no longer guaranteed two layers of Spikes against slower targets. Disable might be a neat option, but since it is illegal with Spikes, it should never be used. Crunch can be used to hit Ghost-types coming in to block Explosion, although many of them can be beaten through other means anyway. A fully offensive set can be used; however, it is mostly outclassed by Piloswine and Beartic, and it is best for Glalie to stick to its own niche of setting up Spikes instead.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bastiodon and Probopass are two of the best counters to Glalie, as they can bounce back both Spikes and Taunt with Magic Coat, take little damage from its attacks, and can set up Stealth Rock against it. Carracosta and Gurdurr are bulky enough to tank hits and can either set up on Glalie or KO it with a combination of a powerful STAB move and priority. Golem and Armaldo can KO Glalie through its Focus Sash, although Golem finds a little trouble switching in. Generally, most opponents that are faster than Glalie can either limit it to one layer of Spikes or force it to use Explosion early. Glalie is also beaten by most common leads due to its lack of power, bulk, and bad defensive typing.</p>