[Overview]

<p>Golduck is a textbook case of a good Pokemon that is simply outclassed in most ways by other similar Pokemon; in this case, Samurott and several other Water-types. Golduck has all-around usable stats, a relatively wide movepool, and a couple of decent abilities to complement them. Its main claim to fame is its ability to use Calm Mind effectively thanks to its decent Speed and bulk, something rare among Water-types in NU. Cloud Nine is the ability that makes Golduck unique among Water-types, as it makes Golduck both a check to opposing weather sweepers and one of the only offensive Water-types that isn't hindered if used on a sun team. All this being said, it is difficult to ignore the fact that Golduck's power and Speed are only average when compared to many other Water-types in NU.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Surf
move 4: Signal Beam / Ice Beam
item: Leftovers
ability: Cloud Nine
nature: Calm
evs: 196 HP / 176 SpD / 136 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Golduck's usable bulk and Speed to give it a niche among the bounty of Water-types in the tier. Calm Mind is the main move of this set, as it not only improves Golduck's mediocre Special Attack but also provides the special bulk needed to withstand even some super effective moves long enough to retaliate. Substitute is also an important move to give Golduck a defense against the status conditions that cripple it, and it creates a buffer against attacks. It is notable that this combination also allows Golduck to use Calm Mind multiple times against common defensive opponents that cannot break its Substitute with a single attack, such as Alomomola and Metang. Surf is the most reliable STAB move Golduck has in terms of power, accuracy, and PP. Signal Beam is the preferred coverage move, as it hits Ludicolo and Jynx the hardest out of all of Golduck's moves and also is able to damage other Water-types. Ice Beam is also viable, as it hits most Grass-types much harder and still does a decent amount of damage to Ludicolo and Mantine, but it forces Golduck to become reliant on boosted Surfs to hurt most other Water-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs allow Golduck to outspeed everything up to neutral base 70 Speed Pokemon, such as Ludicolo and Samurott, and set up Calm Mind before they can attack. The remaining EVs are tailored to defeat Modest Ludicolo if it tries to switch in on Golduck as it uses Calm Mind, as they allow Golduck to then outspeed, set up another Calm Mind, take only 42.28% maximum damage from Giga Drain, and at worst 2HKO with Signal Beam before Ludicolo can do the same. A more offensive EV spread with max Special Attack and Speed is viable, but you lose out on the ability to take super effective moves from Samurott and Regice. Leftovers is the only choice in item because it continually provides Golduck with HP in order to continue making Substitutes, which is more important than an item that enhances Golduck's offensive power. Cloud Nine is the preferred ability because it disables every form of weather and allows Golduck to function normally against sun teams; in comparison, Swift Swim is only useful against opposing rain teams and does not remove the boosts the rain provides to the opposing team. Encore is a decent option to use instead of Substitute, but having a defense against status is generally more useful than locking your opponent into a move. Scald is also a possible option to use instead of Surf, as the difference in power is less notable with the more boosts Golduck receives, and the burn chance is greatly appreciated against opponents that Golduck cannot safely set up Calm Minds against. Still, Golduck prefers its opponents to be Toxic poisoned, and the burn chance clashes with this.</p>

<p>Toxic Spikes support from Pokemon such as Scolipede and Roselia is very useful in order to allow Golduck to wear down many of its checks and counters, including Regice, Grumpig, fast physically offensive Grass-types such as Leafeon, and Electric-types such as Electabuzz. Most of the setters can also remove opposing Toxic Spikes from your field, which greatly hinder Golduck's sweeping capabilities otherwise. Scolipede also provides an offensive check to most Grass- and Psychic-types, while Roselia and other Grass-types can handle the Water-types that resist Golduck's Water STAB. Fire-types, such as Charizard and Flareon, are good teammates as well, as they can threaten Grass-types that Golduck has trouble against and appreciate its ability to set up on many Water- and Rock-types. Flareon also provides Wish support, as does Audino, which partially makes up for Golduck's lack of recovery outside of Leftovers. A reliable switch-in to Electric-type attacks is also invaluable to Golduck, making Ground-types such as Seismitoad, Golem, and Piloswine great options for teammates. Other possible teammates include Normal- and Flying-types, such as Swellow and Kangaskhan, which are useful to lure out physically defensive Pokemon such as Alomomola and Metang for Golduck to set up on.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Psyshock is a good option, as it allows Golduck to hit Mantine, Roselia, and other specially bulky Pokemon hard, but the difference in power is rarely relevant if it isn't hitting the opponent super effectively. Golduck can use both Choice Specs and Choice Scarf sets decently well with its wide range of offensive options and decent power and Speed, but Simipour is a stronger and faster option for the most part unless you are facing a weather team. Focus Blast and Hidden Power Grass are moves to supplement the coverage of Choice item sets alongside Hydro Pump and Ice Beam, but they aren't that useful on its other sets. An all-out attacking Life Orb set is perfectly viable, but it lacks power in comparison to other similar Pokemon such as Samurott and Simipour. A Life Orb 3 attacks set with either Calm Mind or Encore is also viable, but Simipour and Gorebyss can boost their Special Attack faster in the former's case, and Golduck doesn't have quite enough Speed to use the latter as effectively as it would need to. Hone Claws and physical attacks from Golduck's decent physical movepool are a possibility, but there are far better physical Water-types such as Samurott, Floatzel, and Carracosta. Golduck can easily make use of its Swift Swim ability, but its power and coverage are average in comparison with other Swift Swim sweepers such as Ludicolo, Gorebyss, Seismitoad, and even Mantine. Golduck can make use of a Substitute and Disable set, but Golduck simply lacks the resistances and immunities needed to really get the most out of it.</p>

[Check and Counters]

<p>Toxic Spikes cripples Golduck and prevents it from boosting many times, and Golduck can't avoid them by setting up a Substitute. Status in general cripples Golduck immensely, but it needs to hit Golduck before it can set up a Substitute. Regice can wall Golduck unless it boosts up to +6 and can threaten Golduck with Thunderbolt. Defensive Mantine can wall Golduck unless it runs Ice Beam, but Mantine can't do much back and is easily set up on. While very few other Pokemon can safely counter Golduck, many Pokemon can check it easily as long as Golduck hasn't received too many boosts and isn't behind a Substitute. Jynx is a good offensive check to variants not carrying Signal Beam, as it is immune to Surf and won't take much from Ice Beam. If Golduck is not behind a Substitute, offensive Grass- and Electric-types can threaten Golduck, especially on the physical side. Just about all neutral physical attacks can break Golduck's Substitute, which can help prevent it from setting up too many Calm Minds. Finally, Shedinja walls Golduck to no end.</p>