[Overview]

<p>NU is a tier packed full of potential Stealth Rock users, many of whom share one of Golem's typings. However, there are many different reasons to choose Golem for a slot on your team. The best reason to choose Golem for your team is its dual Ground / Rock typing, which no other common Pokemon in NU shares. This allows it to take Flying-type moves with ease while also being immune to Electric-type attacks. It also gives Golem an additional STAB move to utilize, which Pokemon like Gigalith would love to have. Additionally, Golem is one of only a few Pokemon in the tier that is nearly guaranteed to set up Stealth Rock thanks to Sturdy, allowing Golem to live any one hit from full HP unless the opposing Pokemon has Mold Breaker. With these things in mind, Golem is usually better suited for more offensively oriented teams. Finally, while Golem may have exploitable Grass-, Water-, and Ground-type weaknesses and a low Special Defense stat, it is still a great Stealth Rock user that gets its job done well.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Rock Blast
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Sucker Punch / Toxic
ability: Sturdy
item: Leftovers
nature: Adamant
evs: 200 HP / 252 Atk / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a great STAB combination coupled with a good attack and defense, Golem can be an effective tank. One of the main benefits of Golem using this set over a more offensive set is that it stays around for quite a while, allowing it to reliably check Flying-types in the tier, such as Swellow. Stealth Rock is a quintessential move for any team to keep many dangerous threats in check, and Golem has many opportunities to set up the move due to its typing. Rock Black is preferred for the Rock STAB, hitting through Substitute users such as Braviary. Earthquake is Golem's other STAB move, and it, along with Rock Blast, obtains almost perfect coverage in NU. For the final moveslot, there are two options: Sucker Punch and Toxic. The choice between the two is entirely up to what your team needs more. Sucker Punch takes on a more offensive role, allowing Golem to beat faster, frailer foes such as Haunter, but Toxic is great for crippling walls and decreasing their vitality.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>56 Speed EVs are used to outspeed Shell Smash Torkoal before it has gotten off the boost and defeat it before it gets the chance to use Rapin Spin. Lum Berry can be used in lieu of Leftovers to cure one infliction of status, giving Golem the opportunity to come in on a predicted Toxic later in the match. It also helps it to beat Liepard and to guarantee Stealth Rock is placed against opposing Golurk with DynamicPunch. Rocky Helmet is another option for an item, as it punishes both Rapin Spin users for removing your Stealth Rock and Swellow and Braviary that try to regain switch initiative with U-turn. Protect may be chosen over Sucker Punch or Toxic for the last slot. While it may have less utility than either of these moves, there are situations where Protect can come in handy. First, it allows Golem to scout against common Choiced Pokemon such as Primeape and Sawk. It also grants Golem a turn of Leftovers recovery after switching in to Stealth Rock, allowing it to refresh the effects of Sturdy.</p>

<p>Good teammates for this set are rather similar to the Custap Berry set: Pokemon that like the presence of Stealth Rock on the field in order to help net certain KOes love the utility this set offers. Since this Golem set often sticks around longer in the battle, it can also take hits from Flying and Normal-types that other teammates may not appreciate. This makes frailer offensive threats, such as Swellow and Jynx, great choices for partners. Golem also appreciates a partner who can sponge the special hits that it would rather avoid. Mantine fits this role well since it complements Golem's typing well, resists Fighting-type attacks, and takes most special Grass and Ice-type attacks with ease. It also has Water Absorb, which means it benefits from switching into Water-type attacks targeted at Golem.</p>

[SET]
name: Custap Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Rock Blast
move 4: Explosion
item: Custap Berry
ability: Sturdy
nature: Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is designed to get up entry hazards at the beginning of the battle. With Sturdy at its disposal, Golem is guaranteed to set up Stealth Rock against most opposing leads. Another way this set benefits from the presence of Sturdy is through Custap Berry and Explosion. Thanks to Sturdy and a lack of EVs in Defense or Special Defense, Golem will often be knocked down to Custap range very early on in the battle. Custap Berry gives the user +1 priority on the next selected move when the holder is at 25% or less HP. This, in combination with Explosion, makes Golem a potent threat and allows for a safe switch into another Pokemon once it has completed the task of setting up Stealth Rock. Some may argue that Gigalith does this job better due to its higher Attack stat, but Golem also has Ground-type STAB to its advantage—something that Gigalith cannot claim. This makes Earthquake a mandatory move on the set. Rock Blast is chosen over Stone Edge or Rock Slide to allow Golem to hit through common Substitute users such as Braviary, Haunter, and Ninjask, as well as breaking Focus Sashes on Pokemon like Scolipede.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given set runs maximum Speed EVs because the loss in bulk is not important for a suicide lead. There are also still a few options that you can use over the moves listed in this set. Toxic is a nice move to take on the bulkier Pokemon against which Golem may otherwise struggle, chipping away at walls such as Alomomola and Tangela. You may also want to run Sucker Punch over Explosion to catch some Pokemon such as Haunter off guard after Custap Berry has been used. This set runs best on offensive teams that require a specific Pokemon being weakened or taken out, as both Explosion and Stealth Rock will deal a great amount of damage to opposing leads and switch-ins. Anything that appreciates the presence of Stealth Rock to assure a KO makes a good partner to this Golem set. Some examples include Sawsbuck, Ludicolo, and Seismitoad. Scolipede makes a decent partner to Golem as well, as it can set up Spikes alongside Golem's Stealth Rock while Golem can take the Fire-, Rock-, and Flying-type attacks aimed at Scolipede. Finally, Misdreavus can be partnered alongside Golem to take on Sawk and block Rapid Spin.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>There are not many other options for Golem. One thing that it can fit into its Custap set is Sunny Day over Explosion. With this change, Golem is able to set up both Stealth Rock and Sunny Day in order to support its team. This is a solid option for sun teams, as Golem will likely use Sunny Day right before it dies, providing a free switch into a threatening sun sweeper. You can also choose to run Stone Edge for more power or Rock Slide for greater accuracy, though you lose out on being able to break Substitutes and Focus Sashes. Normal Gem can be used alongside Explosion to deal massive amounts of damage, though this is less reliable than Custap Berry. For this same reason, Lum Berry and Leftovers are generally poor choices on the Custap set. Custap Golem can also utilize Endure to ensure that Choice Band Mold Breaker Sawk can't prevent it from setting Stealth Rock, but in order to run it, you would have to forfeit one of Golem's great coverage options, making it an inferior option. Autotomize might seem like a good option to outspeed and defeat common checks to Golem, but between its common weaknesses making it difficult to set up and its Speed leaving it vulnerable to being revenge killed by common Choice Scarf users, Golem is generally better off filling a supporting role. A Choice Band could be used, but Golem is not best suited for this role; because many other common Stealth Rock users share a similar typing, you are just compounding weaknesses for your opponent to exploit. Sturdy is also great for a Stealth Rock lead role, and by running a Choice Band set, you aren't utilizing Golem to its fullest potential.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Golem's weaknesses are common, and it also has a poor Special Defense status that can be used against it. For these reasons, its has many checks and counters. Some Taunt users, such as Misdreavus and Serperior, can both prevent Stealth Rock from being set and defeat Golem one-on-one. Misdreavus is faster than both of Golem's sets, has access to Will-O-Wisp, and is immune to both Explosion and Earthquake. Serperior can use Taunt and hit Golem hard with Giga Drain. Mold Breaker Sawk can also prevent Stealth Rock from being placed by ignoring Sturdy and knocking out Golem in one hit. Golem struggles to beat bulky Water- and Grass-types, such as Samurott, Ludicolo, and Torterra, which can all manage to take a hit while bringing Golem down to 1 HP. Piloswine can also beat Golem thanks to STAB Ice Shard and Earthquake, both of which Golem is weak to. Alomomola cannot prevent Golem from setting up Stealth Rock, but otherwise, it will always beat Golem not carrying Toxic thanks to its great HP, high Defense and access to Wish. Finally, while Golem may seem like a solid answer to Braviary, it needs to be wary against it due to Bulk Up. Golem relies on hitting a high number of times with Rock Blast in order to break through Substitutes and hit for solid damage; otherwise, Braviary can set up to +6 Attack and Defense with Bulk Up while Golem struggles to break Substitute. Golem also risks being hit with a Superpower if it switches into Braviary.</p>