[Overview]

<p>Giant fighting robots are generally tough opponents, and Golurk is no exception, as it is one of the premier physical threats in NU. Its typing grants it a fantastic dual STAB combination, an immunity to Volt Switch, and the ability to check Primeape and Sawk not locked into Ice Punch, two of the tier's most common Fighting-types. Wielding a Choice Band, Golurk is one of the most fearsome wallbreakers, capable of 2HKOing the entire tier with the appropriate move. It can also make use of its numerous switch-in opportunities to support the team by setting up Stealth Rock throughout the match. However, Golurk is often held back by its low Speed, leaving it unable to sweep fast teams and prone to being revenge killed. Its typing is also sometimes a double-edged sword, often forcing it to retreat due to its numerous weaknesses to common types in NU, such as Ice, Water, and Grass.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Shadow Punch
move 3: Ice Punch
move 4: Drain Punch
item: Choice Band
ability: Iron Fist
nature: Adamant
evs: 80 HP / 252 Atk / 176 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Golurk with a Choice Band is one of the hardest Pokemon to counter and can function as a wallbreaker many offensive teams can use. Its numerous resistances allow it to switch into the battlefield many times and its amazing power can easily 2HKO the entire tier, including some Pokemon that resist Ground. However, this set is extremely reliant on prediction, as a wrong move can let a dangerous Pokemon such as Braviary or Samurott set up.</p>

<p> Earthquake is Golurk's main STAB move, hitting extremely hard, even 2HKOing the very bulky Alomomola after Stealth Rock and Spikes. Shadow Punch is Golurk's second STAB move. Boosted by Iron Fist, it hits Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Haunter for major damage. Ice Punch provides further coverage, hitting Normal- and Flying-types such as Braviary that are immune to Golurk's STAB moves. It also carries a good chance to 2HKO Tangela after Stealth Rock. Finally, Drain Punch can hit Normal-types for super effective damage, as well as giving Golurk a form of recovery. It can also be used as a relatively safe move if prediction is too risky as it hits Steel-types for super effective damage like Earthquake, while hitting the Normal/Flying Pokemon for neutral damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs on the set allow Golurk to outpace fully invested Adamant Golem. ThunderPunch is another option that nabs a guaranteed 2HKO on Alomomola after Stealth Rock, although Earthquake hits nearly as hard. Because Golurk needs Stealth Rock up to have a guaranteed 2HKO on the likes of Alomomola and Tangela, entry hazard support is almost mandatory. Metang is an excellent partner, as it can take hits from Swellow and Jynx, which usually force Golurk out if the user predicts wrongly, and can set up Stealth Rock for Golurk. Scolipede can take Grass-type moves aimed at Golurk and help set up Spikes; meanwhile, Golurk helps to spinblock. Ludicolo is a decent partner for Golurk, as it also appreciates entry hazards and reliably beats most Water-types that threaten Golurk. Because Golurk draws in Tangela and Alomomola often, teammates that set up on them are appreciated. Exeggutor can switch in for free on them most of the time and break them down with powerful special attacks. Calm Mind Musharna with Heal Bell can also set up on Alomomola. Roselia is also a good partner, setting up Spikes against these threats. Finally, Gothorita is also an amazing partner for this set, as it traps and eliminates Weezing, Tangela, and Alomomola for Golurk.</p>

[SET]
name: Stealth Rock
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Shadow Punch
move 4: Ice Punch
item: Leftovers
ability: Iron Fist
nature: Adamant
evs: 80 HP / 252 Atk / 176 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses on Golurk's numerous switch-in opportunities and ability to beat common leads with its STAB moves to set up Stealth Rock throughout the match. Thanks to it being part Ghost, Golurk is the only Pokemon in NU that can set up Stealth Rock and spinblock at the same time. Earthquake can get a super effective hit on common leads including Bastiodon, Garbodor, and Golem. Shadow Punch allows Golurk to beat Ghost-types like Misdreavus and Haunter. Finally, Ice Punch hits Normal- and Flying-types such as Swellow and Braviary, which are immune to Golurk's STAB moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>No Guard with DynamicPunch can be considered, allowing Golurk to mess with opposing leads and prevent them from setting up Stealth Rock. However, this makes dangerous moves from opposing Pokemon fully accurate, such as Will-O-Wisp from Misdreavus and Weezing and Hydro Pump from Samurott and Ludicolo. Drain Punch can be used as a form of health recovery, while Stone Edge can be run to beat opposing lead Scolipede, but is pointless as Earthquake 2HKOes it anyway. Colbur Berry can be used over Leftovers to lure in Skuntank and OHKO with Earthquake. The Speed EVs outpace max Speed Adamant Golem. This Golurk is most effective on balanced teams, as it can stick around and set up Stealth Rock throughout the match while providing an offensive presence. Good partners include those that appreciate entry hazards to help them nab extra KOs, such as Ludicolo, Sawsbuck, and Kangaskhan. As this Golurk hates Ice-, Water-, Grass-, and Ghost-type moves, partners that can deal with them are appreciated. Skuntank beats Jynx and Haunter reliably and appreciates the presence of Stealth Rock. Similarly, Ludicolo can take on Water-types like Samurott for Golurk. Scolipede is another good partner, as it can lay down Spikes to help the entire team, shares good synergy with Golurk, and has its entry hazards spinblocked by Golurk.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>No Guard with DynamicPunch is an option on the Choice Band set; however, Golurk sorely misses the power from Iron Fist and would often prefer the extra KOs over confusion. Besides, it also means that inaccurate moves from the opponent's side, such as Blizzard and Hydro Pump, will directly hit Golurk, and with its low Speed, Golurk will be forced out more often. Substitute can be used with Focus Punch or DynamicPunch to ease prediction, as well as preventing walls such as Weezing from statusing it. Golurk can wield a Life Orb or Expert Belt to ease prediction, but will either miss the extra power provided by Choice Band or longevity from Leftovers. Hammer Arm or Superpower can be used over Drain Punch for more power, but as they generally hit the same things as Earthquake does and cause negative stat drops, the utility of Drain Punch is preferred. Zen Headbutt can be used to defeat Weezing, but that's all it does. Magic Coat can be used on the Stealth Rock set to reflect back entry hazards and surprise the opponent. Rock Polish can be used to help set up a sweep, but Golurk's Speed is too low to use it effectively and it is revenged killed easily by priority and faster Choice Scarf users such as Jynx. Rain Dance can be used on a rain team, but unless you're pressed for a team slot, it's better left to another Pokemon, as Golurk's niche is in hitting hard. Gravity can be used to utilize an accurate and powerful DynamicPunch and Earthquake, but Golurk has trouble setting up due to its low Speed, and gets forced out often. Curse can be used to catch walls by surprise, but cuts into its longevity and Golurk would rather do damage directly anyway.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Golurk might be hard to counter, but is very easy to check due to its low Speed and weaknesses to common attacking types. The best counter to the Choice Band set is Weezing, which avoids the 2HKO from all its moves and can wear Golurk down with Will-O-Wisp, Pain Split, and Fire Blast, while only fearing the nonexistent Zen Headbutt. Good prediction is key to countering the Choice Band set, as each move lets certain Pokemon come in on it. Alomomola and Tangela can come in, take a hit and scout for moves, and switch out to the appropriate check while healing HP with Regenerator. Golbat and Misdreavus can switch in on anything bar Ice Punch and Shadow Punch respectively and slowly wear Golurk down. Braviary and Swellow can switch in on both of Golurk's STAB moves and retaliate with Brave Bird or gain momentum with U-turn. Mandibuzz can take any one hit from even Choice Band Golurk and OHKO back with Foul Play, but it will take massive damage if it switches into Choice Band Ice Punch. Similarly, Ludicolo can take a hit, outspeed, and OHKO Golurk, but it is a shaky check at best. Most Pokemon carrying a STAB Water-, Ice-, Grass-, Ghost-, or Dark-type move can come in and revenge kill Golurk. Examples include Jynx, Samurott, and Ludicolo. Skuntank can also play mind games with Golurk using Sucker Punch and Pursuit if it comes in safely. </p>