[Overview]

<p>Gorebyss's access to Shell Smash makes it a very dangerous setup sweeper that can do well against offensive and defensive teams alike. However, while it is powerful, it faces competition from another Shell Smash user, Carracosta, which has a priority move and can set up relatively easily due to its decent bulk and typing. Gorebyss, on the other hand, has trouble finding setup opportunities, especially against offensive teams, because most powerful neutral attacks do a lot of damage to it. Gorebyss also suffers from a slight case of four-moveslot syndrome; while its coverage is decent, it cannot cover every defensive threat at the same time. Gorebyss's low Speed leaves it extremely vulnerable to revenge killing even after a boost because almost every common Choice Scarf user can outspeed and OHKO it, even at +2. Even after Choice Scarf users are removed, Gorebyss still has to watch out for priority users, which can take it out easily after its defenses are lowered by Shell Smash. The large amount of team support required for it to sweep is something that needs to be considered when building around Gorebyss.</p>

[SET]
name: Shell Smash
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Surf
move 3: Signal Beam
move 4: Substitute / Ice Beam
item: Life Orb / Lum Berry
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Shell Smash allows Gorebyss to become a fearsome sweeper and to clean up easily once opposing revenge killers are defeated. Surf provides a powerful yet reliable option for sweeping through the opponent's team. Signal Beam hits Grass-types such as Ludicolo and Exeggutor, as well as Jynx, which otherwise walls Gorebyss. For the last moveslot, Substitute is generally preferred, as it allows Gorebyss to set up in front of walls such as Torkoal, Alomomola, and Metang by shielding it from status. Substitute is also very helpful when the opponent's revenge killer is still alive in order to protect Gorebyss from opposing priority and Choice Scarf users. Ice Beam is an alternative, and while it does not provide insurance against revenge killers, it does allow Gorebyss to take down Roselia, Altaria, and Vileplume if its teammates are unable to do so. However if you go this route, be sure to defeat opposing Choice Scarf users first before attempting a sweep.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Timid nature allows Gorebyss to outspeed everything up to base 85 Speed Choice Scarf users at +2 Speed, including Choice Scarf Sawk and Gardevoir. It also allows Gorebyss to outspeed utility Misdreavus when unboosted, which lets it use Shell Smash or Substitute before being Taunted or burned by Will-O-Wisp, respectively. A Modest nature can be used for more cleaning power, but outspeeding Misdreavus is usually preferred. Hydro Pump can be used for added wallbreaking power, as it can OHKO defensive threats such as Audino, but the loss in accuracy is not worth it, as an untimely miss would end a potential sweep due to Gorebyss's frailty at -1 defenses. The item choice corresponds with the move chosen in the fourth slot. Life Orb should be used with Substitute, as together they guarantee power and safety, and the added residual damage should not matter too much because Gorebyss should ideally only need to use Substitute once. You could also opt to use Leftovers for more opportunities to set up a Substitute, but Life Orb helps Gorebyss nab some important KOs. For example, it needs the additional power to OHKO SubBU Braviary at +2 after Stealth Rock damage. Lum Berry should be used with Ice Beam, as it guarantees protection against status alongside Ice Beam's superior coverage. It also allows Gorebyss to switch into Toxic Spikes fearlessly once.</p>

<p>Swellow and Braviary are decent partners, as they are both capable of taking down troublesome special walls with relative ease. They can also lure in Rock-types and U-turn into Gorebyss, allowing it to set up by threatening an OHKO. Entry hazard support is also crucial for Gorebyss to attain important KOs. For example, Life Orb Gorebyss needs Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes to OHKO specially defensive Ludicolo with Signal Beam, and Gorebyss without a boosting item needs Stealth Rock to guarantee a 2HKO against Lickilicky. Scolipede and Golem are good examples of offensive teammates that can set up entry hazards. Teammates that hit hard physically are also appreciated. For example, Primeape and Pinsir are able to break down the special walls that stop Gorebyss and lure in physical walls such as Alomomola for Gorebyss to set up on. Encore or Memento support is appreciated, as it grants Gorebyss additional setup opportunities. Liepard and Muk can provide this support effectively. Dual screens support is very helpful for Gorebyss, as the added survivability allows it to set up more effectively and survive a few hits from weak priority moves and revenge killers. Teammates that can provide dual screens support include Serperior, Gardevoir, and Ampharos. Gardevoir in particular can also provide Memento support and even Safeguard support for variants without Lum Berry while also setting up dual screens. Gorebyss's sweep can be cut short by Toxic Spikes, as the residual damage from Substitute, Life Orb, and poison greatly reduces Gorebyss's longevity. Grounded Poison-type teammates, such as the previously mentioned Scolipede and Muk, can remove these Toxic Spikes. Skuntank is also a useful teammate, as it can absorb Toxic Spikes, defeat Jynx, and Pursuit Roselia for major damage, which all give Gorebyss an easier time sweeping later on.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Gorebyss has access to Baton Pass along with many potential boosting moves to pass to teammates, including Amnesia, Iron Defense, Agility, and Aqua Ring, making it a great option on full Baton Pass teams. However, do note that the combination of Shell Smash and Baton Pass is banned in NU. Toxic can be used to catch special walls by surprise and wear them down, but it is hard to fit onto Gorebyss's moveset, and Gorebyss is generally better off using attacking moves. Hydration, Rain Dance, and Rest could be used, but this is a waste of Gorebyss's potential, especially as its defenses are decent at best. Gorebyss could make use of Rain Dance and Shell Smash for a powerful and fast sweep, but it would be more efficient if its teammates were to set up rain for it, and boosting with Shell Smash twice is still more beneficial. Finally, Hidden Power Electric could be run in the last slot to destroy unsuspecting Mantine, but this option is rather situational.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mantine is the ultimate counter, as it does not mind any of Gorebyss's common moves, can wear Gorebyss down with Air Slash, and constantly heals itself with Rest. Regice and Lickilicky are bulky enough to tank any one hit and retaliate with Thunderbolt or Body Slam, respectively. Specially defensive Ludicolo and Roselia can switch into Surf and hit back with Giga Drain, but they risk getting OHKOed with the appropriate coverage move with entry hazard support. Choice Scarf users, such as Rotom-A, Jynx, and Primeape, can easily revenge kill Gorebyss, even at +2 Speed. Kangaskhan can utilize two forms of priority moves in Fake Out and Sucker Punch to do the same. However, be mindful that all these revenge killing attempts are stopped cold if Gorebyss has an intact Substitute. Kangaskhan can also be beaten if Gorebyss sets up a Substitute against a Sucker Punch. The best way to defeat Gorebyss is to keep hammering at it before it sets up because this will either severely dent it or prevent it from successfully setting up a Substitute, which makes revenge killing much easier. Variants without Lum Berry also dislike Toxic Spikes, which shortens its sweep, so Roselia and Scolipede are great Pokemon to have when facing it, as they can set up Toxic Spikes and at the same time discourage Gorebyss from switching in and setting up due to their ability to OHKO it.</p>