[Overview]

<p>Gothorita's stats are mediocre even when using Eviolite, but it does have a specific niche in the metagame given by Shadow Tag, which enables it to support Pokemon by trapping and removing their counters. Gothorita can make use of its trapping ability to dispatch dangerous foes that threaten your team such as Alomomola, Seismitoad, Tangela, and Weezing. Gothorita can further harm the opposing team by setting up on a foe, and then proceed to dent their team with boosted attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Rest
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Psychic
move 4: Toxic / Reflect / Thunderbolt
item: Eviolite
ability: Shadow Tag
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 176 Def / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Gothorita's main and most effective set. Psychic is the STAB move of choice, as it deals decent damage after a couple of Calm Minds; keep in mind that it's a tad weak before that. This set is mainly meant to set up on a Pokemon and sweep, but it can also be helpful for other Pokemon to revenge kill weakened Pokemon or eliminate a dangerous threat such as Sawk. Gothorita excels at setting up on and defeating most physical and special walls such as Weezing, Alomomola, Vileplume, non-Dragon Tail Lickilicky, Regice, Mantine, Gardevoir, and Audino. None of them can stop Gothorita from setting up and sweeping, but be wary of Probopass, as it will Volt Switch out of Gothorita. Once it has trapped the correct Pokemon, Gothorita can set up on it with Calm Mind, as well as heal with Rest when needed. Toxic allows Gothorita to slowly wear down walls such as Alomomola and Tangela while it sets up on them.</p>

<p>You can use Reflect in the fourth slot; with it and the given EV spread, you can survive 4 to 5 Crunches from Skuntank, which might help if your opponent predicts the Gothorita switch-in, enabling it to escape without taking much damage, nullifying Skuntank as a check. Reflect can also allow Gothorita to set up on other powerful physical attackers, such as Regirock or Piloswine, that would otherwise run over it. Reflect also helps Gothorita undertake the physical attackers that might switch in on after it defeats a Pokemon, such as Scolipede, which KOes Gothorita unless Reflect is active; however, thanks to Eviolite and Reflect, its non-Life Orb Megahorn will deal a puny 29.15 - 34.4% damage to Gothorita. It can also use Thunderbolt for additional coverage over Reflect and Toxic, as it helps with dealing with Alomomola faster and damages Psychic resists that aren't afraid of Toxic, such as Musharna. Thunderbolt also OHKOes 4/0 Skuntank after Stealth Rock damage at +6, and cleanly 2HKOes more defensive variants.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The chosen EV spread allows it to outspeed Alomomola, which it can cripple with Toxic, kill with Thunderbolt, or set up on. Gothorita also has Rest to heal it of Alomomola's inflicted Toxics. This can also help it deal with Tangela, albeit with considerable difficulty, using Toxic to defeat it while Gothorita stacks Calm Minds and Rest to get its health back. Taunt can be used against support Pokemon, but Reflect will be a superior option. You can use Psyshock instead of Psychic as it hits Regice and non-Taunt Calm Mind Serperior harder. Gothorita can also use Sleep Talk in the fourth moveslot, which lets it make use of its sleeping turns, but it's a luck based choice that could go wrong, for instance choosing Rest twice in a row. It also has the huge downside of possibly KOing the Pokemon Gothorita is trying to set up on before Gothorita gets enough boosts.</p>

<p>Good teammates for Gothorita are those that can deal with the threats that stop Gothorita from freely switching in or sweeping an entire team. Scolipede needs to be dealt with due to its magnificent Speed, so Misdreavus and Golurk make good partners. Additionally, Swellow, Sawk, Kangaskhan, and Pinsir appreciate Gothorita's ability to deal with the majority of NU's walls. Swords Dance Samurott enjoys Gothorita's company, as Gothorita traps Alomomola, Vileplume, Pelipper, and Mantine, all of whom plague Samurott.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Gothorita can use Energy Ball, Shadow Ball, and diverse Hidden Powers as coverage options, but Toxic and Thunderbolt are generally better. It can use an anti-hazards set of Taunt, Psychic, Grass Knot, and Hidden Power Ground with Eviolite and a nature and EV spread of Modest, 80 HP / 252 SpA / 176 Spe to stop foes such as Golem, Regirock, Garbodor, Metang, Probopass, and Bastiodon from setting up hazards. The Speed EVs allow Gothorita to outspeed max Speed Golem and tie with standard Garbodor. Max Special Attack and a Modest nature also guarantee a 2HKO on Regirock. Additionally, Gothorita can run a Choice Specs set with an EV spread of 172 HP / 252 SpA / 84 Spe and a Modest nature, outspeeding Alomomola and Tangela. Gothorita can cripple several Pokemon with the combination of a Choice item and Trick. It can also run Hidden Power Ground to beat Bastiodon, Probopass, and Lairon, which allows Gothorita to support the myriad of Pokemon that are scared out by them. However, its main problem is that it doesn't hit hard enough even with Choice Specs, and Calm Mind will almost always be better.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>There are really no true counters for Gothorita due to Shadow Tag; the best you can do is guess when it's going to switch in and proceed to bring in your check. Scolipede can check Gothorita by hitting it hard with Megahorn, but fails to do much to Reflect variants. Reflect Gothorita will easily OHKO it then, as it can survive three hits from Scolipede's Megahorn. Skuntank can stop Gothorita from setting up thanks to Taunt, and it can also use Pursuit to weaken it even through Reflect so that other teammates can break past it. If Gothorita is using the suggested spread and Reflect, its Pursuit won't damage Gothorita much, though. Choice Band Primeape with Punishment checks Gothorita well, as it can easily KO Gothorita after few boosts or predict the switch and U-turn out. In general, powerful physical attackers, such as Choice Band Braviary, can switch in after Gothorita defeats another Pokemon and hit it very hard if Reflect is not up.</p>