[Overview]

<p>Stuck in a tier where Psychic-type Pokemon run rampant, Grumpig struggles to make an impact, as most of its roles are better done by Psychic-types that boast reliable recovery moves and/or workable defenses. However, the additional resistances granted by its Thick Fat ability allow it to patch up holes in teams, and the new found access to Heal Bell coupled with Whirlwind grant it a solid niche over its competition as a specially defensive cleric. While this niche is not enough for Grumpig to find a spot on most teams, it does wield the ability to check some of the biggest threats in the NU metagame: Jynx and Charizard. Taking both of them on and their Focus Blast coverage is a rare talent that Grumpig possesses. The frustration Jynx and Charizard causes to most teams could possibly give Grumpig the limelight it has never seen.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility Support
move 1: Heal Bell
move 2: Psyshock / Psychic
move 3: Whirlwind
move 4: Thunder Wave / Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Fitting best on bulky teams with entry hazards, Grumpig's job is to support its team with Heal Bell, phaze with Whirlwind, and paralyze or poison as much as possible to aid its team members. Its high base Speed for a wall comes in handy, as it outpaces the majority of defensive Pokemon in the tier. Psyshock is overall the most useful attack, as it breaks Jynx's Substitute, but Psychic can be used instead for its higher Base Power. Whirlwind works well at preventing Pokemon from setting up on Grumpig, as well as racking up entry hazard damage. Grumpig's resistances from Thick Fat and impressive special bulk provide it with many chances to use Heal Bell, removing fatal status conditions, as well as allowing teammates to use Rest as a recovery move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If stall teams cause problems, Taunt can be used in the last moveslot so opposing Pokemon do not ruin Grumpig's supporting capabilities. If you would rather not use one of Grumpig's moveslots, Taunt users such as Mandibuzz, Misdreavus, or Serperior are encouraged as partners. Focus Blast can also be used in place of Thunder Wave and Toxic to surprise clerics such as Lickilicky and Audino, but it fails to do much damage to either. Wish support is nice for Grumpig as it cannot reliably recover itself. Alomomola is a good partner as it can patch Grumpig's lackluster Defense, or Audino or Lickilicky can be used to form a Special Defense core, as they have good typing synergy with Grumpig. Regirock, Carracosta, and Miltank are some great Stealth Rock users to complement Grumpig's phazing because of their physical bulk. Miltank deserves a special mention as Grumpig can take most Fighting-type attacks headed towards it, and Miltank can take the Ghost-type attacks aimed at Grumpig. Miltank also can fill the cleric role, allowing Grumpig to use a different move in its first slot. Offensive partners that work well with Grumpig are those that can take out the physical Dark-, Bug-, and Ghost-type Pokemon that threaten it. Golem is a great example because it can beat the popular Skuntank as well as most Bug-type Pokemon, and can Sucker Punch the ever-present Golurk for hefty damage. In return Grumpig patches up Golem's terrible Special Defense. Lastly, spinblockers such as Misdreavus are needed to keep hazards on the field to ensure Grumpig's phazing has a purpose; just make sure the team covers their shared Dark and Ghost weaknesses.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Calm Mind set is viable, but Musharna and Gardevoir are better choices for this due to the former's defenses and the latter's offenses. Musharna also handles the dual screens role better, as it has access to Moonlight and better bulk. Trick can be used, but Grumpig's Choice Scarf set misses out on the base 95 Speed tier, and the Choice Specs set is not strong enough; additionally both sets are better done by Gardevoir and the latter is also run better by Musharna. Grumpig can also set up weather, but Prankster Pokemon and setup sweepers are more reliable. Magic Coat is a fun, situational move that surprises well known status inducers, but it is generally not worth the moveslot. Power Gem can be used to hit Charizard and Jynx, both of which it walls very well. Lastly, Grumpig can run a set of Rest / Sleep Talk / Psyshock / Heal Bell for self-recovery, but it loses its utility as a phazer and as a status inducer.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Most physical attackers, including Skuntank, Scolipede, Golurk, Pinsir, and Swellow, outspeed and crush Grumpig. Primeape deserves a special mention, as a super effective U-turn will scare Grumpig out and force its team to lose significant momentum. Mandibuzz can also Taunt Grumpig with absolutely nothing to fear from it in return. Nevertheless, all of these Pokemon risk being hit by a Thunder Wave or Toxic on the switch or being blown right back out with Whirlwind. Ground-type Pokemon in general are great checks, as they can come in on a Thunder Wave and set up or attack. Any Taunt user typically forces Grumpig out, and Pokemon with Pursuit will be having pork for dinner; Skuntank is a prime example of both of these. Misdreavus is also a good check, as it can Taunt Grumpig or smack it with a super effective Foul Play or Shadow Ball. Lastly, Rapid Spin users ruin Grumpig's phazing antics, and clerics spoil Grumpig's status shenanigans; for example, Lickilicky can remove its statuses and wear Grumpig down with Body Slam.</p>