[Overview]

<p>Heatmor is a very mediocre Pokemon in NU, being one of the myriad of Fire-types outclassed by Charizard. Due to its poor defenses as well as its mediocre Speed, Heatmor will often be outsped and KOed before it has a chance to do anything. Heatmor also has a crippling Stealth Rock weakness, shortening its already limited lifespan. Despite these flaws, Heatmor has a few redeeming qualities that prevent it from being completely worthless in the NU metagame. Thanks to its high offensive stats as well as its amazing movepool, Heatmor can run a mixed set relatively well. Heatmor is also the only Fire-type in NU capable of using Sucker Punch, allowing it to revenge kill miscellaneous threats its competition cannot. Despite these perks, Heatmor should never be your first choice for a Fire-type, and you should always consider your other options before using it.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Fire Blast
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Superpower
move 4: Sucker Punch
item: Life Orb
ability: Flash Fire
nature: Rash
evs: 132 Atk / 252 SpA / 124 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Heatmor's wide array of coverage moves, it can function as a relatively decent wallbreaker. Fire Blast serves as the main STAB move, and thanks to its high Base Power, it can 2HKO relatively bulky Pokemon such as Mandibuzz and Misdreavus. Giga Drain has amazing coverage with Fire Blast, hitting Water- and Rock-types, such as Seismitoad, Samurott, Alomomola, and Regirock, for super effective damage. Superpower is the premier option in the third slot, as it reliably 2HKOes special walls such as Audino and Lickilicky. Sucker Punch is what sets Heatmor apart from other Fire-types, as it revenge kills several Pokemon, such as Jynx, Haunter, and Swellow, that they cannot. However, you should only Sucker Punch when the foe is weakened, as it is very weak without a STAB boost and cannot OHKO many Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Heatmor to outspeed minimum Speed base 80s, such as Stoutland and Gardevoir, while allowing Heatmor to take down Audino and Lickilicky with Superpower after being hit by Fire Blast. Hone Claws is a possible option to increase the power of Sucker Punch as well as the accuracy of Fire Blast. However, Heatmor's below average bulk prevents it from setting up reliably. Focus Blast can be used to hit Pokemon such as Miltank and Regirock harder and still deal a large amount of damage to Lickilicky and Audino, but its low accuracy is a major drawback. Heatmor's great power and coverage allow it to use Expert Belt effectively, but more often than not, the additional power from Life Orb is more useful. Because of Heatmor's low Speed and defenses, a large amount of team support is required for it to function effectively. Heatmor loathes entry hazards, so Pokemon that can prevent them going up, such as Choice Band Sawk and Taunt Serperior, make great partners. As Heatmor forces a large amount of switches, entry hazard support from Roselia, Garbodor, or Scolipede is recommended to put pressure on the foe's team. As for offensive partners, Jynx is a fantastic one, as she can switch into Water-type moves thanks to Dry Skin and can threaten Ground- and Dragon-types such as Golurk and Fraxure with Ice Beam. Torterra is another amazing partner, as it can switch into the Rock- and Ground-types moves Heatmor fears and also hit Water-types super effectively with Wood Hammer.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Curse set with Curse, Fire Punch, ThunderPunch, and Sucker Punch can be used, but Heatmor's poor defenses and bad defensive typing make it difficult to set up and it can rarely take advantage of the Attack boost due to the low Base Power of its physical attacks. Heatmor can use Pursuit to a decent effect, as it forces out Jynx, Exeggutor, Gardevoir, and Haunter out of fear of its other moves. Hidden Power Ice is usable to hit Altaria, but it doesn't hit anything else notable. Heatmor can use a Sunny Day set with Sunny Day, Fire Blast, Sucker Punch, and SolarBeam, but to be perfectly honest, Sucker Punch is the only reason to use Heatmor over other Fire-types such as Charizard and Rapidash in this regard. Finally, Heatmor can use support moves such as Taunt, Will-O-Wisp, Knock Off, and Toxic, but this is better left to bulkier Pokemon such as Misdreavus.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Heatmor's power and coverage make it relatively difficult to counter. Camerupt is not hit super effectively by any of Heatmor's attacks and can put it into an unfavorable position with Earth Power. Regirock falls into a similar category, as apart from Giga Drain, it isn't fazed by whatever Heatmor throws at it and can OHKO it with Stone Edge. Water-types such as offensive Seismitoad, Carracosta, and Samurott can switch into any move not named Giga Drain and OHKO Heatmor with their respective STAB moves. While Heatmor is a difficult Pokemon to counter, it isn't very hard to check due to its low Speed and common weaknesses. Common offensive Pokemon such as Choice Band Sawk and Primeape can take a Sucker Punch and OHKO in return with Close Combat. Kangaskhan can revenge kill Heatmor with the combination of Fake Out and Double-Edge. Overall, if you have anything faster than Heatmor that can take a Sucker Punch, you shouldn't have many problems with it.</p>