[Overview] 

<p>Although Kadabra is an NFE, it is one of the strongest special attackers in the tier. However, unlike most other heavy hitting special attackers, Kadabra is also one of the faster Pokemon in the tier, outspeeding threats such as Sawsbuck and Charizard. In addition, it has the amazing ability Magic Guard, meaning that it cannot be worn down by Life Orb damage or get stalled out by status. Despite this, Kadabra's main flaw is apparent; while it has a good offensive potential, its defenses are some of the game's worst, and it will almost never survive a physical attack, even if it resists the move. However, if you can work around its frailty, Kadabra can be a useful asset to your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Psychic
move 2: Signal Beam
move 3: Hidden Power Ground
move 4: Encore / Substitute
item: Focus Sash / Life Orb
ability: Magic Guard
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Kadabra's best and only viable set comes in the form of a somewhat straightforward special attacker, with the goal of outspeeding opponents and hitting them hard. Thanks to Magic Guard, it cannot be worn down by poison, burn, Leech Seed, Life Orb recoil, or entry hazards, giving it a huge advantage over its competition. It also is faster than almost any special attacker in the tier, making it one of the few Pokemon in the tier with a combination of power and Speed. Psychic is the main STAB, and it does a hefty amount of damage to the common Fighting- and Poison-types that inhabit the tier. Signal Beam has good coverage with Psychic-type moves, hitting opposing Psychic- and Dark-type Pokemon for super effective damage. Hidden Power Ground hits Steel-type Pokemon such as Bastiodon hard, and Skuntank is also 2HKOed by it. These three moves have near provide perfect coverage in the NU tier hitting everything other than Shedinja, which is very uncommon.</p>

<p>The last move depends on the item choice. Encore is useful on Kadabra for many reasons. If it can Encore a Sucker Punch (a common move Kadabra gets targeted by), it can get out for free and enable one of your Pokemon to set up. Encore is also useful because Kadabra is so fast it can make a Pokemon continually use a set-up move (provided it doesn't have priority) or a status move. You should use Encore if you have a Focus Sash. However, despite the fact that nearly any move will break Kadabra's Substitute, even Alomomola's Scald, it protects Kadabra from getting OHKOed by everything that touches it, and it can be set up when an opponent flees from Kadabra's Psychic STAB. This should be used with a Life Orb, because a Substitute prevents Kadabra from being at full HP, making Focus Sash useless.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Focus Sash is preferred because Magic Guard means that entry hazards cannot break Kadabra's Focus Sash, and Kadabra will usually need the item's effect to survive any hit, considering how easy it is to OHKO. A Focus Sash also makes Kadabra a decent last-ditch revenge killer, because it cannot be KOed no matter how many boosts the opponent has. However, a Life Orb is also a good option for Kadabra, as Magic Guard means that it won't take damage from the item, giving it essentially a free boost. It is also not very powerful without a Life Orb, meaning frail Pokemon such as Zangoose can take a hit and then OHKO it. Also, if you are considering using Kadabra as a Fighting-type resist, note that Kadabra's frailty means that this is not a good idea. In fact, Gurdurr can KO it with a combination of Drain Punch and Mach Punch.</p>

<p>Fighting-types such as Gurdurr and Sawk are good partners for a number of reasons. Dark-types are generally dangerous for Kadabra, as the most common ones, Skuntank and Cacturne, can KO Kadabra with Sucker Punch before it can move or Pursuit it if it tries to switch out if it has taken prior damage or predicts incorrectly. Fighting-types resist these very dangerous Pokemon's STABs and can hit them hard in return. Fighting-types also can destroy special walls like Regice and Lickilicky, both of which Kadabra has no chance of getting past. While Kadabra is fast, there are still a few Pokemon that have a higher base Speed, such as Swellow, Electrode, Zebstrika, Ninjask, and Swoobat. Because most of these Pokemon are Electric-types or are weak to Rock-type moves, Golem is a good teammate, as its typing allows it to OHKO them with its STABs. As Kadabra is very hard to switch in, slow users of U-turn or Volt Switch, such as Ampharos, can be useful to allow Kadabra to switch in without having to take a hit.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Kadabra has a boosting move in Calm Mind, which makes it hit quite a bit harder, but because Kadabra is so frail, it is pretty hard to set up. Hidden Power Fighting and Shadow Ball can be used over Hidden Power Ground and Signal Beam as they provide similar coverage, but in exchange for hitting things like Shedinja, Swoobat, and Scraggy harder; however, Kadabra struggles quite a bit against Skuntank, which is far more common, usually necessitating the need for Hidden Power Ground. Psyshock can be used over Psychic to hit special walls harder, but generally Kadabra appreciates the extra power Psychic has. Charge Beam is similar to Calm Mind, but it allows Kadabra to boost and attack at the same time. Recover can heal Kadabra, but while it is usually a good move, Kadabra will usually take over 50% damage from any attack anyway. Hidden Power Ice wrecks Torterra and Altaria, but outside of that it has little utility. Finally, Trick can pull off some interesting strategies, such as tricking a Flame Orb for a pseudo Will-O-Wisp, or cripple a wall with a Choice Scarf.</p>

[Checks and Counters] 

<p>Kadabra may look simple to counter at first, but when its Focus Sash is intact, it can be a bit hard to defeat it as it can always take a hit and retaliate in this case. Regice stands out as a counter, as it can take hits from Kadabra all day and 2HKO it with Ice Beam. Lickilicky is only 3HKOed by a Life Orb-boosted Psychic, Kadabra's most powerful option against it, and Lickilicky can 2HKO it at worst. Mandibuzz is 4HKOed at best by Kadabra's Life Orb Signal Beam and can take it out with Foul Play and Roost away the majority of the damage it takes. Piloswine can take two Psychics, and its access to Icicle Spear and Ice Shard makes Kadabra struggle against it. While uncommon, Scraggy takes very little damage from any of Kadabra's moves, and can set up against it. Skuntank needs to watch out Hidden Power Ground, which 2HKOes it, but Skuntank can OHKO Kadabra with Sucker Punch before it can attack or catch it with Pursuit if it switches out. Altaria and Regirock have good special bulk to take hits and can 2HKO Kadabra with their own STAB moves. Golem can use Rock Blast to break through Kadabra's Focus Sash like Piloswine or can Sucker Punch it, but it gets 2HKOed by Psychic. Cacturne can also OHKO with Sucker Punch and switch into Psychic, but if Kadabra's Focus Sash is intact, it will be unable to take a Signal Beam. It doesn't have to be Sucker Punch to OHKO it once the Focus Sash is broken, as Zangoose can OHKO it with Quick Attack with the Toxic Boost boost almost all the time, and a Choice Scarf Pokemon like Braviary will have an easy time OHKOing it.</p>