[Overview]

<p>While Kingler's massive base 130 Attack may appear to make it one of NU's biggest threats, Kingler unfortunately suffers from a severe imbalance of stats. Physically, Kingler is capable of both taking hits and dishing them out with its excellent Attack and Defense stats coupled with its access to boosting moves such as Swords Dance. However, Kingler's terrible Special Defense leaves it exposed to almost every special attack in the tier, and even powerful Fire- and Ice-type attacks will be able to take it down despite its resistances to them. Kingler's Special Attack is also unsalvageable, leaving any hope of a mixed set in the dust. Compared to Speed titans such as Swellow and Swoobat, Kingler's base 75 Speed stat may not seem too appealing, but with access to Agility, Kingler can double its Speed in one turn and lay waste to any revenge killers that dare confront it. Kingler continues to be overshadowed by Crawdaunt in the upper tiers, but in the depths of NU, Kingler is definitely the king crab.</p>

[SET]
name: Agility + Swords Dance
move 1: Agility
move 2: Swords Dance
move 3: Crabhammer
move 4: Return
item: Life Orb
ability: Hyper Cutter
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 48 HP / 252 Atk / 208 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to the excellent coverage provided by its Water- and Normal-type moves, Kingler can afford to run a very effective double dance set. Agility lets Kingler go on a Speed-boosted sweep, taking out frailer Pokemon in one hit while outspeeding almost every Choice Scarf holder in the tier. Swords Dance is the other boosting move that lets Kingler lay waste to stall teams; every Pokemon in the tier is either OHKOed or 2HKOed by a +2 Kingler. Kingler rarely gets time to use both boosting moves, so the choice of which one to use depends on the opposing team. Frail hyper offense teams can be destroyed after an Agility, while Swords Dance should be used against stall teams, as most of the time the extra Speed isn’t required. However, if Kingler does manage to get to +2 in both Speed and Attack, then the chances of your opponent winning are very slim. Crabhammer is Kingler's STAB move of choice, as Kingler unfortunately doesn't learn the more reliable Waterfall and cannot boost its STAB move with Sheer Force. However, Crabhammer does have a high critical hit ratio which can come in very handy in clutch situations where an OHKO is required. Return completes the Water- and Normal-type combo that is resisted by few in the tier.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>208 EVs in Speed guarantee that Kingler will outspeed max Speed Choice Scarf base 95 Pokemon. Attack is maximized with an Adamant nature to ensure Kingler hits as hard as possible, while the remaining EVs are placed in HP to give Kingler a buffer against the commonly used physical priority attacks in the tier. Jolly can be used instead of Adamant to let Kingler outspeed Choice Scarf Rapidash and Electabuzz, but the increase in power provided by an Adamant nature is often too good to pass up. Hyper Cutter is a better ability than Sheer Force as the latter does not boost any of this set's moves, and Hyper Cutter can help Kingler against Intimidate and Memento users such as Luxray and Gardevoir, respectively. X-scissor is an option for hitting Tangela and friends harder, but it's usually a worse move overall than Return. Double-Edge is a more powerful Normal-type move than Return but comes with the unfortunate side effect of causing massive recoil to Kingler, which means that its sweep could easily be cut short by residual damage.</p>

<p>Teammates that dispose of Tangela and Leafeon, Kingler's two biggest threats, are very much appreciated. Torkoal and Charizard are two powerful Fire-types that can easily crush Grass-types and have decent synergy with Kingler. Swellow and Braviary are also excellent teammates that can easily sweep after Kingler has removed the Rock-types that trouble them, while the birds can take out Grass-types that plague Kingler. Defensively, Kingler appreciates Pokemon that can take specially based Grass- and Electric-type attacks for it; Altaria can take both and provide Heal Bell support for Kingler, while it also appreciates Kingler taking weaker Ice-type attacks for it. Kingler also likes hazard support from the likes of Garbodor and Camerupt, both of whom can take down Grass-types while also setting up hazards that help Kingler achieve more KOs; for example, Leafeon can be OHKOed by a +2 X-Scissor after Stealth Rock damage, while Tangela also falls after a few layers of Spikes.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Kingler has few other options to abuse its mighty Attack stat with. Rock Slide is boosted by Sheer Force but doesn't obtain any notable KOs and also has poor accuracy. Superpower is Kingler's most powerful non-STAB move but also fails to gain Kingler any extra coverage and lowers Kingler's best stat after every use. Toxic is a generic move to cripple Tangela and Leafeon, but otherwise it serves little purpose, and Kingler is better off just smashing them with a +2 X-Scissor. Substitute can be used over Agility to assist in setting up, but usually Agility has more utility, although it is nice for setting up on Alomomola. Other moves Kingler has to disrupt the opposition are Knock Off and Swagger, but Kingler is better off just attacking. A Choice Band set is viable as well, but it doesn't patch up Kingler's Speed and Kingler is better off being able to change moves and boost its stats. Kingler has a decent special movepool which includes Ice Beam, but its Special Attack is just too low to make a mixed set viable.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taking advantage of Kingler's terrible Special Defense should be one's first priority when trying to take it out. Most neutral STAB attacks, such as Misdreavus's Shadow Ball, are easy 2HKOs on Kingler. Electric-type attacks from the likes of Raichu and Electabuzz can easily fry Kingler, but they have to be careful switching in as Crabhammer eliminates them and Agility lets Kingler take them out next turn. None of Kingler's attacks can do anything to Vileplume or Alomomola who can beat Kingler with Giga Drain or in Alomomola's case, cripple it with Toxic. Tangela and Leafeon have been mentioned numerous times as the biggest threats to Kingler other than Vileplume, and Alomomola with their immense physical bulk and resistance to Kingler's STAB attacks. They can either suck Kingler dry with Giga Drain or use Leaf Blade to turn Kingler into crab sushi. However, even they can be overpowered by a +2 X-Scissor if they have taken some residual damage. Priority is also a decent way to take out a weakened Kingler regardless of how many Agility boosts it has accumulated. Kingler suffers from all forms of status, so if you can catch it with a burn or paralysis while it tries to set up, then it will be easy pickings for the rest of your team.</p>