[Overview]

<p>Klang is often underused and ignored in the NU tier due to its small movepool and lack of coverage. However, it makes its mark with its signature moves: Shift Gear and Gear Grind. Those two moves represent the purpose of using Klang: to set up and perform a sweep. Klang is meant to function as a late-game sweeper, finishing off any opponent that hasn't been defeated by Klang's fellow teammates. Klang is one of the few Steel-types in the tier, and because of the offensive presence it can create with its signature moves, it stands out from the competition.</p>

[SET]
name: Mono-Attacker
move 1: Shift Gear
move 2: Rest
move 3: Gear Grind
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Eviolite
ability: Clear Body
nature: Impish
EVs: 240 HP / 136 Def / 40 SpD / 92 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses on Klang's exceptional defenses, handy resistances, and access to RestTalk to set up and sweep. However, RestTalk is often unreliable and comes with a loss of momentum. While its primary role is that of a physically defensive wall, it can set up on a variety of Pokemon, such as Musharna, Skuntank, Jynx, and Serperior. Klang trades coverage for additional bulk: it can set up much more easily than its standard set, tank more attacks, and power its way through most of the NU tier. Its lack of recovery and vulnerability to status conditions are no longer an issue due to Rest, which heals Klang to full HP in a pinch. Sleep Talk is a very useful move in this set, allowing Klang to set up or attack while it's asleep. Shift Gear is Klang's setup move, which can now be used more efficiently due to Klang's enhanced defenses. Finally, Gear Grind is Klang's STAB move, hitting many Pokemon fairly hard after a Shift Gear boost.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>92 Speed EVs allow Klang to outspeed positive-natured base 95 Speed Pokemon after a Shift Gear boost. 136 Defense EVs with an Impish nature brings Klang to an impressive 286 Defense before the Eviolite boost, allowing Klang to wall many Pokemon, including Kangaskhan and Scolipede, both of which cannot even 2HKO Klang with super effective attacks. The remaining EVs increase Klang's overall bulk. Eviolite is an absolute must to this set if Klang wants to attain the defenses that allow it to wall many Pokemon in NU. Clear Body is Klang's only viable ability for this set. None of Klang's moves can be replaced in this set; each move has a distinct purpose that can't be altered.</p>

<p>Toxic Spikes users are excellent partners to Klang; bulky Water-types, such as Alomomola, are much easier to handle. Garbodor is a prime partner for Klang, dealing with Fighting-types Klang has difficulty setting up against. Scolipede is also a great option as well, having a similar role as Garbodor along with a powerful STAB Megahorn. Because of the lack of coverage on this set, many Pokemon, specifically Fire-types, can tank all of Klang's attacks and strike back. Carracosta and Samurott can handle almost all of the Fire-types, such as Charizard, with their STAB moves. Carracosta with Hidden Power Grass can as a bonus also lure Seismitoad and Alomomola, two Pokemon that Klang has trouble against, and OHKO them after entry hazard damage and, for the former, one use of Shell Smash and one turn of Life Orb recoil. Taunt can nearly shut Klang down; Liepard, Murkrow, and physically defensive Misdreavus can all Taunt Klang and avoid a 2HKO from it, provided that it hasn't set up with Shift Gear. Sawk, Rotom-F, and specially offensive Charizard can handle each of them, respectively. Sawk can also deal with most of the opposing Steel- and Ground-types in the tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Shift Gear
move 1: Shift Gear
move 2: Gear Grind
move 3: Return / Wild Charge
move 4: Substitute / Magnet Rise
item: Eviolite
ability: Clear Body
nature: Adamant
evs: 88 HP / 252 Atk / 168 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is a more offensive version of Klang; it displays excellent usage of its decent Attack, Eviolite, Shift Gear, and resistances to common Grass-, Ice-, and Rock-type attacks in the tier. Through the combination of Eviolite and its Steel typing, which is rare in NU, Klang gets multiple chances to set up Shift Gear against a variety of attackers, especially Choice-locked Primeape, Jynx, and Tauros. Because Klang doesn't have the raw Speed or power to attempt sweeps early- or mid-game, this set works best by defeating weakened foes late-game.</p>

<p>Shift Gear is the main aspect of this set, as it can raise Klang's Attack and Speed to viable&mdash;and sometimes dangerous&mdash;levels. Gear Grind is its STAB move, sporting a Base Power of 100 after two hits, which is very useful in breaking opposing Substitutes from Pokemon such as Serperior, as well as hitting Jynx, Roselia, Cacturne, and Golurk for an OHKO or 2HKO after a Shift Gear boost. Return offers nearly perfect coverage when paired with Gear Grind, hitting Pokemon such as Rotom-S and Ludicolo much harder than Gear Grind could. However, Wild Charge allows Klang to severely dent Water-types, such as Samurott and Carracosta. The recoil damage and lack of recovery might make this move a lackluster choice though, especially if Substitute is used. Substitute is the recommended final option, allowing Klang to set up without fear of being inflicted by status from the likes of Misdreavus. However, Magnet Rise allows Klang to set up on Ground-type Pokemon that it normally struggles against, such as Golurk, Golem, and Piloswine.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>168 Speed EVs allow Klang to outspeed Scolipede and Pokemon at or below base 110 Speed after a Shift Gear boost. 252 Attack EVs and an Adamant nature maximizes the power of Klang's attacks, and 88 HP EVs are invested so Klang can tank more attacks. If more bulk is preferred, an EV spread of 140 HP / 252 Atk / 116 Spe can be utilized, and Klang still outspeeds Pokemon at base 100 Speed or below, such as Haunter and Jynx. Eviolite is the staple of this set, allowing Klang to set up without being easily KOed. Leftovers can be used for consistent recovery, but Klang's defenses suffer a significant drop, so it's not advised. There aren't any other viable move selections that Klang can utilize.</p>

<p>As Klang is a late-game sweeper, sweepers to get rid of Pokemon that wall Klang, such as Alomomola and Eelektross, are useful. Exeggutor is an prime example, as Exeggutor can take Fighting- and Ground-type attacks aimed at Klang while defeating Alomomola. Eelektross can also wall Klang quite well, so Mold Breaker Sawk is a great counter, as it can OHKO Eelektross. Entry hazard support a great way to weaken the adversary for Klang before it performs a sweep. Garbodor is a great partner, as it can set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes, crippling walls such as Alomomola and Tangela. Regirock can also set up Stealth Rock while taking Fire-type attacks that Klang despises. Wish support is also appreciated, as Klang doesn't have any reliable form of recovery. Alomomola and Lickilicky are great options in that department, as both of them can heal Klang significantly with Wish. Gothorita in particular can also aid Klang by trapping and defeating Alomomola and Gurdurr.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Because of Klang's pitiful movepool, its options are limited. A special attacking set with Charge Beam is possible, but many Pokemon in NU can easily wall Klang, and without Shift Gear, Klang loses its offensive presence. Volt Switch can be useful in certain conditions, but as Klang will be setting up the majority of the time, it isn't recommended. A set consisting of Toxic and Thunder Wave is plausible, but Klang has no supporting moves outside of these, and thus makes for a very poor support Pokemon. Finally, Life Orb can increase Klang's offensive prowess, but Eviolite is unarguably the best item for Klang because it allows Klang to better maintain its Substitutes.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Even with Eviolite and useful resistances, Klang can still be easily taken down. Fighting-types such as Choice Scarf Primeape and Gurdurr are excellent answers to Klang, overwhelming it with their powerful attacks; the former can only prey on a weakened Klang, as it cannot outright OHKO it, and the latter can easily switch into any of Klang's attacks. Unless Klang carries Magnet Rise, Ground-types, especially Golurk, can take almost all of Klang's attacks and KO it with their STAB Ground-type moves. Shift Gear Klang has no reliable recovery, so wearing it down with powerful, consistent attacks is a great way to defeat it. Status is a particularly good way to shut down Shift Gear Klang; Misdreavus can burn it with Will-O-Wisp, and Miltank and Musharna can hit it with Thunder Wave. However, these should be used only if Magnet Rise has been revealed, as Klang carrying Substitute can avoid status.</p>

<p>While there are not many Pokemon that can outright KO Klang, many Pokemon can sponge an attack or two from it, then proceed to set up on it. Alomomola, Eelektross, Ludicolo, Torterra, and many other bulky Pokemon can either set up on Klang or outright attack it for decent damage. Frillish and Lampent can wall Klang's STAB move and are immune to Return, so they can serve as good walls against it. The former must be wary of Wild Charge, however. Knock Off makes Klang significantly more easier to deal with, as it lowers Klang's defenses.</p>

<p>Finally, there are many checks to Klang that can defeat it, but only if Klang hasn't set up with Shift Gear. Taunt is a great way to prevent Klang from overpowering your team; Liepard, Misdreavus, and Murkrow are great examples of Taunt users, but bear in mind that all of them take a lot of damage from Gear Grind. Fast Fire-types, such as Rapidash and Charizard, can check Klang with their super effective STAB moves, but Klang can seriously dent them if it has set up. Choice Scarf users, such as Sawk and Gardevoir, are great checks to Klang if it hasn't set up. Overall, Klang is not that hard to wall and KO because it doesn't hit that hard and has average coverage.</p>