[Overview]

<p>Some might underestimate Lampent due to its NFE status and mediocre stats in general, but it actually has a lot of redeeming aspects that allow it to work exceptionally as a bulky pivot, both on offensive and defensive teams. With Eviolite, it has good enough bulk to take several neutral attacks, giving it opportunities to use support moves such as Trick Room, Memento, and Will-O-Wisp to aid its teammates. Meanwhile, its Special Attack stat is still high enough to threaten offensive Pokemon that may try and set up on it, and to let it finish off opponents with ease. Lampent's unique typing and Flash Fire accentuate both of these aspects, as it packs immunities to the common Normal-, Fighting-, and Fire-type attacks thrown around in NU, allowing it to easily set up a Substitute. With just its STAB moves alone it hits the entire tier at least neutrally besides Thick Fat Miltank. Although Lampent is admittedly vulnerable to Stealth Rock, and can be forced out easily due to its numerous weaknesses, its ability to provide team support while maintaining offensive momentum makes it one of the better bulky Fire-types in the tier. Don't just add Lampent to any team and expect it to work well; take the time to build a defensive core around it and provide it with the support it needs, and Lampent can become invaluable.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSplit
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Pain Split
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Shadow Ball
item: Eviolite
ability: Flash Fire
nature: Modest
evs: 212 HP / 252 SpA / 44 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>There are a lot of top threats that Lampent can easily take advantage of. For instance, Lampent can easily set up Substitute on Gurdurr, and Combusken. Defensively, a Fire / Ghost typing has plenty of useful resistances and immunities, such as resistances to Grass-, Fire-, and Ice-type attacks and immunities to Normal- and Fighting-type attacks. Offensively, the typing provides virtually unresisted STAB coverage in NU save for Thick Fat Miltank. It's not that hard for Lampent to set up a Substitute. After Lampent uses Substitute, it can hit the opposing Pokemon hard with either Fire Blast or Shadow Ball, or recover health with Pain Split. Despite its base 95 Special Attack, STAB Fire Blast will still do a lot of damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>44 Speed EVs allows Lampent to outspeed uninvested base 60 Speed Pokemon such as Tangela. 252 Speed EVs can be used to make Lampent as fast as possible and maximize the health regained from Pain Split. However, Lampent is still not that fast even with Speed investment, and it appreciates the extra bulk. Lampent is quite powerful with Life Orb, but then Lampent loses a ton of bulk that it really needs. Calm Mind is an interesting option over Substitute or Pain Split, but both moves are very important and Lampent is not the optimal choice for a sweeper thanks to its mediocre Speed.</p>

<p>Lampent can beat a lot of Serperior's checks, such as Vileplume and Charizard, while Serperior reciprocates by beating Water- and Rock-types, most notably Regirock. Omanyte synergizes pretty well with Serperior and Lampent and can set up Spikes and Stealth Rock which both Pokemon are adept at abusing. Armaldo is a decent teammate for Lampent, as it can spin away Stealth Rock, but it doesn't synergize well with Lampent as both are weak to Water- and Rock-type moves. Piloswine beats some Pokemon that Lampent can't get past, such as Altaria, and can also set up Stealth Rock. In addition, Lampent is immune to the Fighting-type attacks that Piloswine is weak to.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Memento / Energy Ball
item: Eviolite / Life Orb
ability: Flash Fire
nature: Quiet
evs: 232 HP / 12 Def / 252 SpA / 12 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lampent has access to Trick Room, and is an exceptional user of it due to its ability to switch into certain opponents and set up with impunity. For example, Choice Band Sawk, some of the most powerful offensive threats in the metagame, are stopped cold when Lampent switches into their STAB attacks, letting it set up Trick Room for free. From this position, it can either attack non-threatening opponents with its powerful dual STABs, outright killing many offensive Pokemon with a Flash Fire-boosted Fire Blast, or switch to a teammate that can abuse the effects of Trick Room more effectively, depending on the situation. If desired, Lampent can use Memento to facilitate this, and give a niche Trick Room sweeper such as Rampardos, Marowak, or Clamperl the opportunity it needs to set up and wreak destruction. Thanks to its above-average bulk, even without full investment, it can take most powerful neutral attacks and super effective Hidden Powers with ease, giving it the opportunity it needs to exert its control over the battlefield.</p>

<p>Fire Blast is picked as the primary STAB option as its excellent Base Power combined with Lampent's base 95 Special Attack stat, coupled with a possible Flash Fire boost, makes it extraordinarily powerful even without a boosting item. Combined with its dismal base 55 Speed stat and the effects of Trick Room, it can outright sweep offensive teams that lack a Pokemon resisting Fire-type moves. Shadow Ball provides Lampent with excellent secondary STAB, giving it exceptional neutral coverage while also dealing with the many bulky Psychic-types in the tier, such as Gardevoir, which could otherwise take its attacks with ease. Memento is a good option for the last moveslot, as it allows Lampent to cripple opponents for other teammates to set up on, while also allowing them to make the most of the Trick Room support it provides. However, if you don't fancy this, Energy Ball is also a good option for its ability to hit bulky Water-types, such as Alomomola, as well as Rock-types, especially Regirock, for more damage than Shadow Ball.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Eviolite is one of the most effective items to use on Lampent, as it provides Lampent with enough bulk to take repeated neutral attacks from weaker opponents, and thus increases its ability to support its teammates. However, Lampent can surprisingly still function well without it, as while its defenses become mediocre, it still has plenty of opportunities to switch in due to its numerous immunities, and it still has enough bulk to take a single powerful attack thanks to the EV investment. In this case, Life Orb is also a good choice as it provides Lampent with even more firepower and gives it more of a chance to sweep on its own, reducing the need for team support. The EV spread gives it about the same bulk as its older cousin Chandelure, while also granting it enough offense to threaten opponents. Due to its low base defenses, the above EV spread is the most efficient at maximizing them overall, while coincidentally giving Lampent a Life Orb number in HP to reduce recoil should it choose to play offensively.</p>

<p>There are plenty of other options to use in the fourth moveslot; Taunt can allow Lampent to break apart defensive cores, prevent opponents from setting up entry hazards, and ward off debilitating status. Once Lampent has activated Trick Room, it becomes a very effective sweeper, but it will struggle under normal conditions as it's outsped by most walls. Pain Split can be used to give Lampent some extra longevity, but as the aim of this set is to either attack or get out of the way, such a variation would be somewhat counter-productive to offensive playstyles. Hidden Power can also be used to provide extra offensive coverage; both Hidden Power Water and Hidden Power Ground hit the Fire-types that it walls so easily super effectively, with Hidden Power Water dealing with Camerupt and Hidden Power Ground also dealing with Steel-types such as Probopass and Bastiodon more effectively. Note that a super effective Hidden Power Ground does less damage to Camerupt than Shadow Ball due to its ability, Solid Rock.</p>

<p>Obviously, this set requires significant team support to be effective, but it will truly excel when used on a well-built team. Firstly, a Rapid Spinner is highly appreciated, as Lampent is vulnerable to all entry hazards, and will be switching in and out throughout the match as it fulfills its role as an offensive pivot. Wartortle is a good choice as, thanks to its excellent physical bulk and access to Scald, it deals well with the physical attackers that prey on Lampent's weaknesses to Dark-, Ground-, and Rock-type attacks. In this vein, Grass-types are also particularly useful teammates due to their defensive synergy and ability to deal with the Water-types that plague Lampent; Exeggutor can fill this role while also being an excellent supplementary Trick Room user and abuser. As Lampent can force many switches with its typing, entry hazard support of your own can also be useful to take advantage of this, and can allow Lampent to finish off more OHKOs and 2HKOs on its own. Finally, as you're most likely to be using this set on a Trick Room team, make sure to include sweepers on your team that can deal with opponents that threaten Lampent. Marowak presents a ridiculous threat to most Rock-types in the tier, while Zweilous can crush the Water- and Dark-types it can switch in on with its amazingly powerful Outrage.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Flamethrower
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Will-O-Wisp / Taunt
move 4: Pain Split
item: Eviolite
ability: Flash Fire
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Lampent can function as a good Trick Room supporter, it can also make an excellent defensive Fire-type on regular teams that desire it for its typing, bulk, and ability to block Rapid Spin, but don't need the Speed-reversing effects of Trick Room. Furthermore, this set provides Lampent with more moveslots to fill with support moves, making it a more versatile defensive Pokemon overall. Although its defensive stats are equal, a specially defensive set is often more useful as by virtue of its typing, Lampent deals more effectively with common special attackers, such as Charizard and Eelektross, while physical attackers will more often pack a coverage move that hits it super effectively.</p>

<p>Flamethrower and Shadow Ball allow Lampent to deal consistent damage to most opponents and make the most of its dual STABs. Will-O-Wisp is especially useful on this set as it patches up Lampent's weaker Defense stat by neutering any physical attacker that attempts to switch in, letting Lampent last for longer. Taunt is still useful as it prevents opponents such as Misdreavus from using Lampent as setup bait, but is less effective than on the Trick Room set as it lacks the Speed to outpace most other Pokemon, and thus can't be used to block status as effectively. Pain Split is used in the last moveslot as it provides a semi-reliable method of recovery, significantly improving Lampent's longevity over the course of a match. Overall, the extra options available to Lampent on this set allow it function as a more self-sufficient defensive Pokemon, providing burn support for teammates while also keeping itself healthy throughout the match. Although it can be argued that Misdreavus is more effective at using this set due to its superior special bulk, Lampent's unique typing, Flash Fire, STAB Fire attacks, and higher Special Attack stat still make it worth considering. So long as you treat it as more of a Fire-type than a Ghost-type, you will not be disappointed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Flash Fire is particularly helpful on this set, as it allows Lampent to completely wall most of the Fire-types in the tier and slowly wear them down with Shadow Ball, a claim that other Ghost-types in the tier find hard to boast. While Camerupt can unfortunately 2HKO Lampent with its STAB Earth Power, Combusken, Rapidash, and Simisear are all walled effortlessly thanks to Lampent's excellent Special Defense. As usual, Lampent has other support options that it can run over a STAB move or Will-O-Wisp. Clear Smog and Haze can be used to deter stat boosters, but they aren't particularly helpful as common stat boosters, such as Gorebyss and Torterra, can hit it hard even unboosted; Lampent is often better off just trying to burn physical stat boosters such as the latter two anyway. Substitute can be used alongside Pain Split to help protect it from status and priority attacks, while also facilitating Pain Split's recovery, but is hard to use due to Lampent's low Speed. Fire Blast can be used over Flamethrower if you want the extra power, but it largely isn't needed on a defensive set, and Fire Blast missing at a crucial moment can cost Lampent its life against the likes of Torterra, who can hit Lampent's weaker Defense stat. Likewise, Hex is an alternative STAB option to Shadow Ball, and can be effective with the use of Will-O-Wisp (and Toxic Spikes support), but just isn't powerful enough against healthy opponents to be worth it most of the time.</p>

<p>Lampent significantly appreciates being integrated into defensive cores that can compensate for its many weaknesses, and functions well alongside physically defensive teammates who can switch into opponents when Will-O-Wisp misses. Leafeon is excellent in this regard, as it is able to tank physical Water-, Ground-, and Rock-type attacks all day, hit their users for super effective damage with a powerful Leaf Blade, and also provide Lampent with Heal Bell support to rid it of debilitating status effects. Rapid Spin support is appreciated, but not mandatory, as Lampent can heal itself more as it takes more damage, increasing the overall utility of Pain Split without compromising Lampent's chances against most of the opponents it walls.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>One of Lampent's least commonly seen sets is a physically defensive Calm Mind set, using the moves Substitute / Calm Mind / Pain Split / Fire Blast. Lampent's bulk lies in its EVs, and thus a physically defensive spread actually gives it significant bulk that lets it take even super effective attacks, such as Choice Band Sawk's Stone Edge, and survive. As it comes in on the likes of Choice Scarf Sawk locked into Close Combat, it can set up a Substitute, use Calm Mind to bolster its lower Special Defense, and keep setting up until it can destroy opponents with a boosted Fire Blast, while using Pain Split and Toxic Spikes support to deal with Flash Fire users. However, this set is extremely difficult to pull off due to Lampent's low Speed stat and plethora of weaknesses, so it's not for the faint of heart.</p>

<p>Lampent also gets lots of supplementary support moves that can be fit into the above sets if you want. Toxic gives it a way of weakening opposing stall teams, but given Lampent's extensive movepool, another Pokemon should use Toxic and let Lampent use Will-O-Wisp instead. Acid Armor can be used on the specially defensive set to directly bolster Lampent's Defense stat, but isn't generally useful as it is forced in and out of combat a lot, removing the effects of Acid Armor. Sunny Day can also be put to good use, possibly over Trick Room on the Trick Room set; this gives Lampent's Fire Blasts more kick, in addition to reducing its Water-type weakness. However, Lampent is then forced to choose between Eviolite and Heat Rock as its item; removing the former reduces Lampent's bulk significantly, while removing the latter limits its potential as a team supporter.</p>

<p>Lampent can also choose to use its alternate ability, Flame Body, to stack up passive burns against the physical attackers that can prey on its weaknesses. However, this isn't particularly effective as the most threatening physical moves, Earthquake and Stone Edge, do not trigger burns. In addition, Lampent really appreciates using Flash Fire both to increase its switch-in opportunities and to bolster the power of its Fire Blasts, so Flame Body is an overall inferior option. In terms of attacking options, Overheat can be used over Fire Blast on any of the sets as Lampent does tend to switch a lot anyway, but this decision could ultimately hurt you in late-game situations where you are relying on Lampent's tanking ability. Psychic can be used to hit Fighting-types harder than Flamethrower and Shadow Ball, but as Fire Blast hits them all as hard as Psychic, it's generally not worth using over another option. Hidden Power Ice can be used to hit Altaria, but that's all it does.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although Lampent is highly effective in its specific roles, its many weaknesses unfortunately mean it can be forced out easily. It's hit super effectively by Water-, Ground-, Rock-, Ghost-, and Dark-type attacks, meaning that offensive threats such as Haunter, Skuntank and Gorebyss can muscle through it if Trick Room hasn't been set up. While Lampent can deal somewhat effectively with them through smart play, such as using Will-O-Wisp on Skuntank as it Sucker Punches, and using Trick Room + Energy Ball to OHKO Gorebyss as it uses Shell Smash, smart opponents will be able to predict around it. As Lampent doesn't often run Defense EVs, powerful physical attackers can break through it with neutral attacks. Swellow is a particularly good response as it can switch into Shadow Ball and Will-O-Wisp with no repercussions and force Lampent out with Brave Bird. Thick Fat Miltank is the ultimate defensive check, as it takes Lampent's STAB attacks with ease and can set up Stealth Rock before Lampent can Taunt it. Fast Taunt users in general are a good response as they prevent Lampent from supporting the rest of its team with Trick Room, Memento, or Will-O-Wisp, but they must be wary of a powerful Fire Blast.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Lampent gets the almost exclusive Shadow Tag ability from the Dream World, and is one of its best abusers. With it, the rarely seen Calm Mind set becomes its coup de grace, as Lampent will be able to come in on attackers locked into Normal- and Fighting-type attacks and set up as much as it wants with Substitute, Calm Mind, Acid Armor, or even Flame Charge, before sweeping opponents with +6 offenses and defenses. When it is released, Shadow Tag Lampent will significantly change the metagame around it, forcing opponents such as Sawk and Combusken to adapt to survive. That is, if it isn't outright banned from NU.</p>