[Overview]

<p>Leavanny's typing is very uncommon, with its dual STABs hitting the premier walls of NU, such as Musharna, Tangela, and Alomomola, for super effective damage. It has a nice Attack stat with some fun moves to play with. Unfortunately, its Speed falls just short of the 95 Speed tier, being outsped by Jynx and Haunter. Leavanny also has an unfortunate weakness to Stealth Rock, stripping away 25% of its health every time it switches in. Leavanny's bulk isn't the best and leaves much to be desired. Its typing is a dual-edged sword; while it provides great resistances to common Fighting-, Grass-, Water-, Ground-, and Electric-types, it also provides unfortunate weaknesses to Fire, Flying, Ice, and Rock. Despite all these flaws, Leavanny can provide substantial team support.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Leaf Blade
move 2: X-Scissor
move 3: Synthesis
move 4: Heal Bell
item: Life Orb
ability: Swarm
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set capitalizes on Leavanny's typing and movepool, using its most useful moves in its arsenal as well as possible. It is mandatory for Leavanny to have STAB moves, as that is one of the few reasons to use it at all. Leavanny is usually attacking straight away since it does not want to waste turns when checks and counters are still in play&mdash;which is very often the case. Synthesis heals off any entry hazard damage taken, while also mitigating the damage done by Life Orb. Synthesis is also particularly useful, as it becomes a shield from Sucker Punch, which Leavanny can survive from any Pokemon in the tier at full health. Heal Bell is great for team support and also removes any status that gives Leavanny trouble. Synthesis, in conjunction with Heal Bell, allows Leavanny to beat various walls such as Alomomola and Wartortle, among various other Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Jolly is crucial to outspeed base 90 Speed tier Pokemon, such as Zangoose, who is OHKOed after Stealth Rock. Life Orb is required for maximum damage output, scoring the OHKO on Golurk, Zangoose, and Ludicolo, while achieving the 2HKO on Alomomola and Musharna. Swords Dance can help muscle past walls such as Musharna and Alomomola before they can heal, but Leavanny is easily revenge killed and it won't be staying around long enough anyway. Swarm is Leavanny's other ability, but is as situational as Chlorophyll, which is more effective in general. Magic Coat is an option to bounce back entry hazards and status, but Heal Bell keeps status away and is not as difficult to predict; however, Magic Coat Leavanny is a solid check to Prankster users such as Riolu and Liepard. Carracosta is a great teammate as Leavanny and Carracosta cover each others weaknesses almost perfectly, and Carracosta can also set up Stealth Rock for Leavanny. Leavanny appreciates a teammate that can absorb Toxic Spikes, such as Skuntank, which can also Pursuit trap Misdreavus and Haunter, both of which give Leavanny trouble. Torkoal is an option as a spinner to start forming a Fire / Water / Grass core and take on all the Fire- and Bug-type attacks aimed at Leavanny. RestTalk Regice is a great partner as it can stop rain teams and Articuno and Vileplume, Pokemon Leavanny struggles with, while Leavanny can remove its sleep status with Heal Bell. Eelektross makes for a good partner to muscle through Mandibuzz, as well as other Flying-types that Leavanny cannot beat. Another partner that works well is Misdreavus, as it can spinblock and Taunt any Stealth Rock leads.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Leavanny has access to Baton Pass, but it is severely outclassed by Scolipede, Sawsbuck, and Leafeon as a Baton Passer. Sunny Day is an option to take advantage of Chlorophyll, but then it has to give up a moveslot and will just be a lot weaker to Fire-type moves. Leavanny also has access to dual screens, but Serperior outclasses it as it has access to Taunt, better Speed and bulk, and a lack of a Stealth Rock weakness. Calm Mind is an option if you opt for a special or Baton Pass set, but Musharna outclasses it in every way. Giga Drain is a recovery option, but it is very weak and Synthesis is more reliable. A Mind Reader and GrassWhistle combo looks good on paper, but is very gimmicky, difficult to set up, and Leavanny is better off attacking or supporting its team with Heal Bell. Leavanny can opt for a full attacking set, but it isn't very useful and is easily worn down. Shadow Claw is one of Leavanny's few other physical moves worth considering, as it hits Misdreavus and Drifblim for nice damage. Return is another option to knock out Charizard after Stealth Rock. Finally, a special set could work as it has access to many special moves such as Air Slash, Bug Buzz, Energy Ball, and Leaf Storm, but it has a very low Special Attack, so they will not be doing much.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Poison-types, such as Garbodor, Golbat, and Scolipede, take absolutely nothing from any of Leavanny's moves, even if they are boosted. Fire-types literally incinerate it to pieces and take nothing from either of its STABs. Flying-types put a halt to Leavanny, especially Mandibuzz and Braviary. Leavanny is hard walled by Steel-types, as it has no moves to effectively hit them at all. Any Pokemon that has base 93 Speed or above ruins its day and can easily kill it off, as it is very frail, leaving it open to being revenge killed. Taunt makes it so it cannot heal or remove status, making it much less useful. Leavanny's Stealth Rock weakness is also a burden, as it loses 25% of its HP just for switching, however Synthesis somewhat makes up for this.</p>