[Overview]

<p>Lickilicky has a wide supportive movepool containing Wish, Heal Bell, Dragon Tail, and more allowing it to act as an effective cleric. Along with these moves, Lickilicky has a high HP stat, meaning the Wishes that it passes off can heal most offensive Pokemon almost to full, and excellent bulk on both sides, which makes it one of the hardest clerics to wear down in NU. Lickilicky isn't limited to only being defensive however, as it has a large offensive movepool, including Swords Dance, a wide special movepool, rare moves such as Power Whip, and even a STAB Explosion. Despite these perks, its low Speed is a bit saddening, and its weakness to Fighting moves, while not as significant in NU as higher tiers, is still bad because of how common Sawk, Primeape, and Gurdurr are. However, Lickilicky is a versatile Pokemon, and is both a dangerous defensive and offensive threat worthy of considering for any team.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Wish
move 2: Heal Bell
move 3: Protect
move 4: Body Slam / Dragon Tail
item: Leftovers
ability: Own Tempo
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With the third biggest Wishes in the tier, only behind Alomomola and the fairly irrelevant Wigglytuff, and access to Heal Bell, Lickilicky is arguably the best cleric in NU. While Alomomola has a much higher HP stat and Regenerator, Lickilicky can take on special attackers including Kadabra, Altaria, Gardevoir without Focus Blast, Regice, and more with ease while still taking on physical hits well enough. Similarly, unlike Audino, which has similar support moves, it can hit the foe back with a decently powerful move due to a decent Attack stat, and is also overall more bulky.</p> 

<p>Wish is an excellent support move, as it provides Lickilicky with a way to heal 50% of its HP and also a very large portion of its teammates' HP stats, especially those that do not invest in HP, namely offensive Pokemon. Heal Bell clears status away from the team, which means that not only can it save its teammates from an untimely burn or paralyze, but it's also not worn down by Toxic like other defensive Pokemon nearly as easily. Protect ensures that Wish heals Lickilicky, making it much harder for special attackers to get through it. Finally, Body Slam is preferred as the attacking move, as it can do decent amounts of damage and it also has a chance of paralyzing the foe, which can make faster opponents almost useless. Dragon Tail is a usable alternative, as it can phaze the foe while not being affected by Taunt and gives Lickilicky a way to hit Ghost-types. However, be warned that it is less than half as strong as Body Slam, and will fail to break many Substitutes.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>While it may seem strange to put Own Tempo over the clearly superior Cloud Nine, Wish and Cloud Nine are incompatible, due to Wish being from a Gen 3 event and Cloud Nine being from the Dream World. Ultimately, Own Tempo is far better than Oblivious, as it at least makes it easily take on the incredibly annoying Liepard, which often runs Swagger. Return is usable over Body Slam or Dragon Tail because it puts a bit more of a sting on foes, but due to its lack of a side effect, the other two moves are more useful from a utility standpoint. If Heal Bell is not needed, both Dragon Tail and Body Slam can be used.</p>

<p>Being a cleric, Lickilicky does not need very much support, and instead usually supports its own team. Wish is useful for practically any Pokemon that lacks instant recovery, such as Regirock and Regice, as it ensures that they will not be worn down as easily. Misdreavus appreciates Wish as well due to its low HP stat and unreliable recovery. In return, Misdreavus can wall Fighting-type Pokemon such as Sawk and Gurdurr, which can otherwise destroy Lickilicky or use it as setup fodder. Offensive Gardevoir is a similar case, and while Sawk tends to do a lot of damage to it thanks to its low physical bulk, it does appreciate Wish healing almost all of its HP and can easily OHKO Fighting-types. Skuntank also makes a good partner, as it can deal with Ghost-types such as Haunter and Misdreavus that Lickilicky can potentially be unable to damage. Skuntank also benefits from Wish and Heal Bell to capitalize on its decent bulk and remove burns, allowing it to perform its role for longer. Finally, if Dragon Tail is used, entry hazard support is helpful to damage the foes as Lickilicky phazes. Pokemon with Spikes, such as Garbodor and Scolipede, make good partners, as both resist Fighting moves and lack instant recovery, meaning Wish will help them out a lot.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Body Slam / Return
move 4: Power Whip
item: Leftovers
ability: Cloud Nine
nature: Careful
evs: 172 HP / 84 Atk / 128 SpD / 124 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set may look strange and complicated at first glance, as it uses Swords Dance, seems to be emphasized on bulk rather than offense, and hardly invests in Attack at all. However, Lickilicky's enormous bulk allows it to set up Swords Dance extremely easily against walls such as Tangela and Alomomola, and after a few Swords Dance boosts, which is fairly easy to do thanks to its lack of weaknesses on the special side, it will be hitting its opposition hard. Substitute may seem like an odd choice on this set, but Lickilicky's Substitute is notoriously hard to break with walls, meaning that Lickilicky essentially can set up another free Swords Dance. For the main STAB, Body Slam is the better option in most cases due to its side effect of paralysis, which can allow it to finish off a foe that is normally faster that may try to switch in. However, Return offers more power. Finally, Power Whip is a powerful move to use alongside Lickilicky's Normal STAB, and allows it to get past foes such as Alomomola, Golurk, and Golem. In addition, most Steel-types, such as Bastiodon and Probopass, are hit for neutral damage from the move, meaning they cannot completely wall Lickilicky.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread outspeeds Alomomola, gives Lickilicky 101 HP Substitutes, and allows these Substitutes to survive Choice Scarf Rotom-S's Volt Switch and many other attacks. The rest of the EVs are thrown into Attack. A much simpler EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe can be used for more of an emphasis on power, but there are many Normal-types and other Swords Dance users that give Lickilicky competition in this role, as its amazing bulk is what makes this set unique. To deal with Steel-types that resist Power Whip, such as Metang and Mawile, Earthquake is usable, and it still hits Rock-types hard enough. However, it then misses out on the ability to hit Golurk hard and also leaves Lickilicky completely walled by Misdreavus, Drifblim, and Haunter. Finally, although Cloud Nine isn't that helpful, it usually comes in handy more often than Lickilicky's other abilities.</p>

<p>This Lickilicky doesn't need very much support due to how easy it can be to set up, but two types that remain dangerous to Lickilicky are Fighting- and Ghost-types, the former of which can easily power through it and the latter of which can wall it easily or give it the dangerous burn. For Fighting-types, ironically, Ghost-types such as Misdreavus make excellent partners due to their immunity to Fighting moves. Misdreavus in particular has Heal Bell to heal off an untimely burn or Toxic. Poison-types such as Garbodor and Scolipede can also take Fighting-types moves and can also absorb Toxic Spikes&mdash;although they are rare, they make it hard for Lickilicky to pull off a sweep. As for Ghost-types, Skuntank can threaten Misdreavus, Haunter, and Drifblim with its arsenal of Dark-type moves such as Pursuit, Crunch, and Sucker Punch, and the fact that Golurk threatens Skuntank doesn't matter that much because Lickilicky's Power Whip does plenty of damage to it already.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Return
move 2: Power Whip
move 3: Explosion
move 4: Earthquake
item: Choice Band
ability: Cloud Nine
nature: Adamant
evs: 132 HP / 252 Atk / 124 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Considering it has an average base 85 Attack, running a Choice Band may seem like an odd choice at first glance. However, Lickilicky has numerous advantages over other Normal-types that make it a viable option. Firstly, Lickilicky's 110/95/95 defenses let it take hits very well, taking hits even better than Kangaskhan by a fair amount. Lickilicky also has two key moves in Power Whip and Explosion, and because it is the only Normal-type to learn these two powerful moves, it can hit certain targets harder than any of its competition. Return is the main STAB move used here, dealing a great amount of damage while not detracting on Lickilicky's bulk in any way. Power Whip is capable of 2HKOing Alomomola and Regirock, as well as OHKOing Golurk, all three of which most Normal-types struggle against. Earthquake covers Steel-types such as Metang for lots of damage, which is useful as they resist everything on this set. Finally, Lickilicky is the only Pokemon in the game, other than Smeargle, to have access to a STAB Explosion. Even with the power drop from the transition to BW, it is the strongest single move in the entire game, and only the bulkiest of Pokemon are capable of surviving the hit; even Musharna gets OHKOed by the move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The given EVs allow Lickilicky to outspeed Alomomola and other Pokemon that have a base 65 Speed. Cloud Nine is useful on this particular Lickilicky due to its great bulk, allowing it to take non-weather boosted attacks and retaliate with the appropriate attack. Because Earthquake most likely won't be used as much as the other moves, Ice Punch or Hammer Arm can be used to hit Drifblim or opposing Lickilicky and Miltank, respectively, harder, but hitting Steel-types such as Metang is important, and these moves end up being situational. Double-Edge can be used over Return to hit general targets for more damage, but there are two issue regarding this change&mdash;one is the fact that the recoil damage takes a toll on Lickilicky's bulk, and the other is that Cloud Nine becomes illegal with this set. If Double-Edge is used, Own Tempo should be used because it comes in handy when against Liepard.</p>

<p>Even though Lickilicky can deal a lot of damage to Golurk, Ghost-types immune to Earthquake, such as Misdreavus, Drifblim, and Haunter, can switch into three of the four moves on this set without fear of taking damage, and even then, Power Whip cannot do very much damage to them, and Haunter can Disable the move entirely. For this reason, Dark-types or Pokemon with Pursuit such as Skuntank make good partners to take them out of the battle. Although Lickilicky has Earthquake, Steel-types such as Metang are nuisances. Ground-types such as Golurk and Seismitoad can generally hit them for a lot of damage. It is notable that, once Steel- and Ghost-types are eliminated, Lickilicky's Explosion can be used more freely, as Power Whip already hits Rock-types for enough damage to dissuade them from switching in. Due to Power Whip, Lickilicky can lure in Rock-types expecting a defensive set and hit them hard with the move, which could leave the foe open to other offensive Normal-types such as Swellow and Tauros, making them good partners.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lickilicky has a wondrous movepool, consisting of moves such as Ice Beam, Fire Blast, Surf, and Thunderbolt. While these can all do a bit of damage, Lickilicky's average Special Attack usually requires a Life Orb, which hurts Lickilicky's great bulk. An Expert Belt could be used instead, but then the power of Lickilicky's STAB becomes lacking. Curse may at first seem like at excellent option for Lickilicky, and may eventually make it almost unbreakable, but its main problem stems from its lack of recovery, because Wish is incompatible with Curse. It therefore becomes outclassed by Miltank, which boasts that and Scrappy. Work Up can also boost Lickilicky's average Attack and Special Attack, but it is hard to sweep with it due to Lickilicky's bad Speed stat. Toxic can wear down walls, but its usage is limited on Lickilicky as it is usually pressed for moveslots. Knock Off is a similar case, as it gets rid of the items of walls but often cannot find space on Lickilicky. Weather moves can work well with Lickilicky due to its great bulk, but there exist many other ways to set up the weather. Finally, Lickilicky has access to Belly Drum, which makes Lickilicky hard to wall, but its Speed once again works against it. It is noteworthy, however, that a Life Orb-boosted +6 Explosion is so powerful that it OHKOes even 252/252+ Regirock without entry hazards.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Gurdurr stands out as the best counter to Lickilicky, as it can use it as setup fodder, heal a lot of its HP with Drain Punch, and take very little damage from any of Lickilicky's moves. Taunt is also a great way to shut down Lickilicky in most cases, making it unable to support its team or set up a Swords Dance. Misdreavus is an example of a Pokemon that can use Taunt, and will wall almost anything Lickilicky can throw at it. SubDisable Haunter is also capable of walling Lickilicky almost completely, due to its immunities. Most of the time, if Haunter Disables the correct move, Lickilicky is literally incapable of damaging Haunter. Drifblim is a similar case if it decides to run Disable, although even without Disable, Lickilicky generally does not run moves that can do very much damage to it. Sawk doesn't enjoy getting paralyzed by Body Slam, but it can OHKO Lickilicky with Close Combat. Without a boosting item, Primeape may not be able to OHKO Lickilicky at full health, but a slightly damaged one will get OHKOed by Primeape's Close Combat. Throh, although uncommon, can easily set up against Lickilicky, and if it gets paralyzed by Body Slam, Guts kicks in and it can hit harder. Lickilicky's defensive set does not hit very hard, meaning that it can become setup fodder for sweepers such as Shell Smash Carracosta and Bulk Up Braviary if it cannot phaze them, although Carracosta must watch out for Power Whip. Finally, as Lickilicky typically cannot hit hard and doesn't usually carry Toxic, physical walls such as Tangela and Regirock are decent ways to take it down, and the two in particular have Leech Seed and Drain Punch, respectively, to heal themselves while wearing Lickilicky down. However, note that most weaker walls are made into setup fodder from Lickilicky's Swords Dance set, and walls weak to Grass need to be careful about boosted Power Whips, which can do quite a bit of damage.</p>