[Overview]

<p>Linoone is a fairly predictable Pokemon, as the Belly Drum and ExtremeSpeed combo remains pretty much the only reason to use it. However, while this does make Linoone somewhat risky to use, it is still extremely hard to stop once it has set up. Even with Linoone's measly base 70 Attack, ExtremeSpeed OHKOes nearly every Pokemon in NU that does not resist it after a Belly Drum. Unfortunately, Belly Drum is very hard to pull off because of Linoone's lackluster defenses, and there are many Rock-, Steel-, and Ghost-types that can stop a Linoone sweep in its tracks even after it has set up. As such, Linoone requires much team support to pull off a sweep, whether it is trapping, dual screens support, or the use of a slow Volt Switch or U-turn.</p>

[SET]
name: Belly Drum
move 1: Belly Drum
move 2: ExtremeSpeed
move 3: Shadow Claw / Return
move 4: Seed Bomb
item: Sitrus Berry / Silk Scarf
ability: Pickup
nature: Adamant
evs: 172 HP / 252 Atk / 44 Def / 40 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Once the opponent's team is clear of imminent threats, Linoone is able to plow through it after a Belly Drum with a STAB-boosted ExtremeSpeed. At +2 priority, ExtremeSpeed allows Linoone to avoid being revenge killed by conventional methods such as Mach Punch and Sucker Punch. Shadow Claw and Seed Bomb provide Linoone the extra coverage it needs to damage Pokemon that would otherwise be able to tank or wall hits from it. Shadow Claw in particular allows Linoone to OHKO common Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Haunter, although both of them are able to outspeed Linoone with Speed investment. Seed Bomb is useful for Pokemon such as Alomomola, Carracosta, Piloswine, Seismitoad, and Golurk that would otherwise be able to survive an ExtremeSpeed. Return is also an option to consider over Shadow Claw if one wishes to damage Psychic-types such as Musharna and Exeggutor a bit more or if one prefers to have a stronger STAB move to use against slower Pokemon, but it makes Linoone even more susceptible to Ghost-types. </p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Silk Scarf gives Linoone an extra boost in power that makes ExtremeSpeed even more devastating after Belly Drum, and can also be used in tandem with Return over Shadow Claw. Otherwise, Sitrus Berry is the preferred option as it allows Linoone more freedom in setting up Belly Drum and can save Linoone when the extra health is necessary to prevent a revenge kill.</p>

<p>With ExtremeSpeed being Linoone's main form of offense, the given EV spread focuses on Linoone's bulk and power to ensure the best opportunity to set up and sweep after Belly Drum. Even without Speed investment, Linoone is still able to outspeed utility Misdreavus and OHKO with Shadow Claw. However, if one wishes to outspeed Haunter and other base 95 Pokemon, then an alternative EV spread of 40 HP / 252 Atk / 216 Spe with a Jolly nature can be used, although this is noticeably less bulky and powerful. Substitute can be considered over Shadow Claw and Return if one wishes to ease prediction when setting up Belly Drum, but the lost coverage hampers Linoone's ability to run through teams freely. Additionally, Substitute is a bit difficult to set up as opponents will usually attack in desperation rather than switch when dealing with Linoone.</p>

<p>Setting up Belly Drum is difficult; as such, it is essential that Linoone has teammates focused around giving it opportunities to set up with little consequence. Dual screens users such as Gardevoir partner well with Linoone as the increased defenses allow for Linoone to avoid being KOed while setting up Belly Drum. Additionally, Gardevoir in particular can use Memento in tandem with dual screens to weaken enemy attacks even further, all while giving Linoone a free switch-in opportunity. Eelektross and Ampharos can utilize a slow Volt Switch in order to give Linoone a free switch-in opportunity as well. Pokemon that are able to absorb Toxic Spikes such as Garbodor and Skuntank are important to have in order to ensure that Linoone cannot be stalled out. Garbodor can also provide Spikes support while Skuntank can trap Ghost-type Pokemon with Pursuit, which are important to eliminate when using Linoone. Lastly, Pokemon that can eliminate Rock- and Steel-types such as Golurk, Sawk, Primeape, and Seismitoad are useful in clearing the way for a Linoone sweep.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Despite Linoone's rather large movepool, only a small portion of it is usable, let alone viable. Choice Band Linoone has instant power with STAB ExtremeSpeed and doesn't need to go through the hassle of setting up, but it is still admittedly weak as a base 70 Attack Pokemon. Trick or Switcheroo can be used alongside Choice Band in order to cripple defensive Pokemon as well. Gluttony and Salac Berry can be used over Pickup for specific situations where Linoone needs to outspeed Pokemon without using ExtremeSpeed, such as against Choice Scarf Haunter. Rock Smash can be used on the Belly Drum set to deal more damage to Bastiodon, but it fails to OHKO it because Rock Smash is inherently weak. Dig can also be used to hit Steel-types such as Metang and Klang harder, but the opponent can simply switch out and play around Dig accordingly.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although Linoone lacks many checks and counters once Belly Drum is set up, defensive Steel-types can still generally handle it. Metang can withstand all of Linoone's attacks and respond with a Meteor Mash, while Bastiodon is able to Roar Linoone away while also being able to tank a +6 Seed Bomb. Probopass can manage to last a hit as well and can retaliate by either paralyzing it or attacking with Power Gem.</p>

<p>Pokemon with the Sturdy ability such as Golem, Gigalith, and Carracosta can survive any hit and pick off Linoone in return, but they must be able to switch in at 100% health in order to do so. Ghost-types can beat Linoone if it does not carry Shadow Claw, and Haunter in particular can outspeed the standard Linoone set. Choice Scarf Haunter can outspeed Linoone even if it opts to run a faster spread and acts as a solid check. Lastly, Tangela and Regirock can both withstand Linoone's attacks if they are healthy enough, and can retaliate with Giga Drain and Drain Punch respectively while restoring health in the process. </p>