[Overview]

<p>The combination of Klutz and Switcheroo grants Lopunny the niche of reliably crippling the opponent's Pokemon of choice with its harmful held item, giving it a helpful role on offensive teams. In addition, its wonderful support movepool and great Speed give Lopunny many ways to disrupt the opponent and aid the team. However Lopunny's terrible offenses, Defense, and lack of recovery typically hinder it from usage, as most teams find trouble using a team slot for pure support. When used successfully, however, Lopunny's teammates have a field day setting up with full health and plowing through the opponent's crippled team.</p>

[SET]
name: Klutz
move 1: Switcheroo
move 2: Encore
move 3: Healing Wish
move 4: Baton Pass / Thunder Wave
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Klutz
nature: Jolly
evs: 248 HP / 8 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lopunny fits best on balanced and offensive teams because it aims to cripple the opponents Pokemon, making it easier for setup sweepers to rampage. With Klutz, Lopunny give any Pokemon its Choice Scarf with Switcheroo, making it easier for certain Pokemon to sweep because their only counter has the harmful item. Choice Scarf is the preferred item because of its consistency, as all walls despise being locked into one move and offensive Pokemon dislike the lack of coverage. Encore is another great disrupting move, as it stops setup sweepers and bothersome walls cold. When Lopunny is close to fainting, Healing Wish can be used, sacrificing Lopunny in hopes that a teammate can set up and beat the opponent. Baton Pass and Thunder Wave are both good options as Baton Pass can take advantage of all the switches Lopunny costs, and Thunder Wave can seriously cripple multiple Pokemon with little effort.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With Lopunny's great Speed, it generally does not have problems crippling at least one Pokemon on the opponent's team, as it outspeeds the common base 95 Speed benchmark. Because of that, many Pokemon greatly enjoy Lopunny's support as they have a much easier time sweeping the opposition. Some great examples include Calm Mind Musharna, Nasty Plot Misdreavus, and Choice Band Golurk, as they all synergize well with Lopunny and love Thunder Wave support. Any Pokemon with immunities, such as Braviary or Metang, can partner well with it, as they can come in safely on a Pokemon locked into Earthquake or Toxic, respectively. Pokemon with Guts, such as Swellow and Ursaring, enjoy Baton Pass support, as they can get in safely and have their orbs activate. Because Lopunny is known for forcing switches, entry hazard setters such as Seismitoad, Golem, Scolipede, and Carracosta are all good choices to set up Stealth Rock or Spikes. Lastly, a move to greatly consider on Lopunny is Magic Coat, as it deflects harmul status moves and, more importantly, Taunt.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lopunny can run many riskier items in conjunction with Klutz, such as a Choice Band, Choice Specs, or Flame Orb, but they all have smaller target ranges that can prove underwhelming in some cases. Other than that, Lopunny's other options are pretty limited. It can run a dedicated Baton Pass set with either Work Up, Agility, or Substitute, but it is generally outclassed in that regard. If Lopunny ever wants to go offensive, it can use Fake Out, Return, the elemental punches, or Circle Throw, but these attacks would be situational at best with their underwhelming power. Rest can grant Lopunny some recovery, but it cannot do much with fewer moveslots. Limber could also be used for Leftovers recovery, but Switcheroo and Klutz are Lopunny's greatest niche. Copycat could be used to take advantage of the opponent's moves as well, such as Stealth Rock or Spikes.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Because a very small majority of Pokemon enjoy holding a Choice Scarf, countering Lopunny can be difficult. If you send in a Pokemon that isn't crippled by a Choice Scarf, they are most likely vulnerable to Thunder Wave and vice-versa. If you need a perfect counter, Zebstraika or Raichu is the best option, as they are not affected—and even benefit—from both moves. Even though Lopunny has few pure counters, it is easy to work around. Many Pokemon can switch in and plow through Lopunny's low Defense, such as Sawk and Primeape. Taunt users also shut down Lopunny; Serperior and Liepard are faster options. Other than that, status and entry hazards both do a great job at wearing Lopunny down due to its lack of recovery.</p>