[Overview]

<p>Ludicolo is both a dangerous rain sweeper and a great special wall in NU. When given a single chance to switch in and a single turn to set up, it can shred entire teams to pieces within seconds. Its unique Water / Grass typing only benefits it, giving it excellent coverage, as well as handy resistances, with just its STABs alone. It also has an impressive Special Defense to work with, letting it take a more supportive role if needed. In addition, Ludicolo does not require excessive team support to function, having every tool it needs to sweep or wall right under its belt. Not all is well, though; the metagame is more offensive than ever, with the prevalence of threats like Scolipede making it harder for Ludicolo to come in and set up. This is a problem for Ludicolo as it just isn't fast or strong enough without the rain up.</p>

[SET]
name: Rain Dance
move 1: Rain Dance
move 2: Hydro Pump
move 3: Giga Drain
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Ludicolo's signature sweeping set. Rain Dance turns Ludicolo into an offensive terror, doubling its Speed and giving its Water-type STAB an enormous power boost in a single turn. Hydro Pump is Ludicolo's Water-type STAB of choice, hitting like a truck with its high Base Power and boost from rain. Giga Drain is Ludicolo's best Grass-type STAB, punishing bulky Water-types and healing it in the process. Finally, Ice Beam provides much needed coverage against Grass- and Dragon-types, and attains near perfect neutral coverage with Ludicolo's STABs.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Modest nature is preferred, as it lets Ludicolo break down most special walls, most notably Lickilicky. Timid can be used to let Ludicolo outspeed everything up to Timid Choice Scarf Electabuzz in the rain, but this is somewhat situational and Ludicolo generally needs the extra power more. Surf is an alternative to Hydro Pump if accuracy is a problem, but Ludicolo loses out on the ability to break through special walls such as Lickilicky. Entry hazards work well with Ludicolo, allowing it to net several KOs against certain Pokemon; for example, Alomomola is OHKOed by Giga Drain after Stealth Rock, and Roselia is 2HKOed by Ice Beam after Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes. Offensive Seismitoad is a good partner, as it can set up Stealth Rock and forms a powerful offensive core with Ludicolo. Spikes users such as Scolipede, Garbodor, and Roselia also pair well with Ludicolo&mdash;not only do they set up entry hazards, but they absorb Toxic Spikes, which are a massive pain for Ludicolo. Ludicolo performs quite well on dedicated rain teams; not only can its teammates set up rain for it, but it can also provide Rain Dance support of its own. On that note, Rain Dance Rotom-S is a good partner for summoning rain as it beats Mantine and Roselia, two Pokemon Ludicolo tends to struggle against. In return, Ludicolo can make quick work of Ground-types that give Rotom-S trouble. Volbeat is another good partner, possessing Prankster Rain Dance to nearly ensure rain is set up and a relatively slow U-turn to make sure Ludicolo gets in safely.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Scald
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Synthesis
move 4: Leech Seed
item: Leftovers
ability: Rain Dish
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 204 SpD / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses more on Ludicolo's defensive capabilities, namely its good special bulk and typing, to become one of the best counters to various special attackers in the tier around. Courtesy of its unique defensive typing, Ludicolo can take on threats such as Gorebyss, Samurott lacking Megahorn, Seismitoad, and opposing Ludicolo with ease. It also manages to check Eelektross, Rotom-F, and Jynx. Scald is a relatively strong Water-type STAB that can inflict a potential burn, which is great for patching up Ludicolo's mediocre Defense. Giga Drain is a reliable Grass-type STAB that also heals Ludicolo in the process and hits many top threats like Samurott, Seismitoad, and Gorebyss hard. Synthesis is Ludicolo's most reliable form of recovery, and works great for stalling out special attackers. Finally, Leech Seed slowly drains the opponent's health and works well in tandem with Giga Drain and Synthesis. This Ludicolo works best on stall and balanced teams looking for a good rain counter, but it's a fairly niche Pokemon and can't just fit onto any team. This is largely due to the offensive nature of most teams in NU, as this set can really slow down momentum.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread allows Ludicolo to outspeed maximum Speed Golem and KO with Scald or Giga Drain after Sturdy is broken. The rest of them focus on its Special Defense. Ludicolo can opt to run maximum Special Defense, but this doesn't really accomplish anything in the long run. Likewise, more Speed EVs can be used, but this detracts from Ludicolo's walling capabilities.</p>

<p>Ludicolo has a few additional moves it can utilize, including Toxic, Ice Beam, and Protect. Like Leech Seed, Toxic can also be useful in gradually wearing down the opponent; unlike Leech Seed, however, it can target some Grass-types. In a similar vein, Ice Beam provides coverage against said Grass-types, as well as Dragon-types, both of which would otherwise turn Ludicolo into setup fodder. Finally, Protect allows Ludicolo to scout for the opponent's next move and gain extra Leftovers recovery. Because this set forces a lot of switches, entry hazards are recommended to take advantage of that. Ground-types make good choices to set up Stealth Rock, as they share good type synergy with Ludicolo. Spikes users such as Garbodor have good synergy with Ludicolo as well. Garbodor can also provide Toxic Spikes support, which works fantastically with Ludicolo's ability to stall. Finally, an Electric-type, such as Eelektross or Zebstrika, makes for a good partner to beat Mantine and Swanna, two Water-types that Ludicolo loses to.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Due to Ludicolo's expansive physical movepool, a Swords Dance set can come as a big surprise to many special walls, but it's generally inferior to the Rain Dance set. Ludicolo can use Sunny Day to take advantage of SolarBeam and Synthesis, but it is a far better sweeper in rain due to Swift Swim. Focus Blast can be used to hit Normal-types hard, but it is not necessary as Hydro Pump in the rain hits even harder (save for the rare Cloud Nine Lickilicky). Substitute is a viable option to block status and ease prediction, but Ludicolo does not have the room for it. Finally, Damp Rock can be used on the Rain Dance set to extend rain turns, but the extra power from Life Orb is far more important.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ironically, bulky Ludicolo is actually a great counter to offensive variants, as bulky Ludicolo can easily stall the latter out of rain turns. Aside from that, Mantine is an excellent counter as it is immune to Hydro Pump, can comfortably tank Giga Drain and Ice Beam with its titanic Special Defense, and can 2HKO with Air Slash. Roselia counters Ludicolo fairly well, and can KO a slightly weakened one with Sludge Bomb, but it cannot safely switch directly into Ice Beam after a little hazard damage. Specially defensive Braviary can tank even a rain-boosted Hydro Pump at full health and OHKO with Brave Bird. Jynx is a check thanks to Dry Skin; however, it is 2HKOed by Giga Drain and loses if Sleep Clause is active. Fast Choice Scarf users, such as Zebstrika, Charizard, and Tauros, can revenge kill Ludicolo even in the rain, but none can do it without prior damage. Priority can also revenge a weakened Ludicolo, examples being Kangaskhan's Fake Out + Sucker Punch combination and Gurdurr's Mach Punch. Toxic Spikes are also very effective at wearing down Ludicolo, limiting its sweeping and walling capabilities. However, the best way to keep Ludicolo in check is to prevent it from setting up rain, as this leaves it much slower and easier to deal with.</p>