[Overview]

<p>With base 120 Attack, a great ability in Guts, and a strong physical movepool to back it up, Luxray has what it needs to be a potent offensive threat in NU. Its Electric typing grants it a good STAB move in Wild Charge, allowing Luxray to get past a foe that most physical attackers struggle with: Alomomola. Additionally, Superpower gives Luxray the ability to handle Regirock and other common physical threats. This, in conjunction with its decent bulk and good coverage, makes Luxray a force to be reckoned with.</p>

<p>However, Luxray isn't without its flaws. Guts usually requires a poison or burn to activate and with the residual damage of status, along with the recoil from Wild Charge, Luxray won't last very long. Additionally, base 70 Speed is rather slow, so faster Pokemon such as Zangoose and Sawk can outspeed and hurt Luxray before it can react. Luxray also struggles against some common physical walls, such as Tangela, meaning it can be stopped in its tracks without proper teammates, something you must keep in mind when using Luxray.</p>

[SET]
name: Guts
move 1: Wild Charge
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Facade
move 4: Crunch
item: Flame Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Luxray's best set. Using its great coverage and base 120 Attack, Luxray can put massive holes in opposing teams. Luxray stands out among other status abusers, such as Zangoose and Swellow, due to its decent bulk and great coverage. Luxray also sports a higher Attack stat than both of these Pokemon and is also able to break through Alomomola. This allows Luxray to serve as an excellent mid-game attacker, hitting the opposing team hard and giving its teammates opportunities to sweep through the remaining Pokemon. Wild Charge is Luxray's STAB move of choice and, while the recoil does not pair up well with the burn damage, it hits fairly hard after a Guts boost. Superpower provides more coverage, maiming Pokemon like Regirock and Golem that would otherwise take little to no damage from Wild Charge. Facade benefits from Guts and hits Grass-types such as Tangela for decent damage. Finally, Crunch is chosen as a final coverage move to pummel incoming Exeggutor and Golurk, both of which don't mind Wild Charge.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature allows Luxray to Speed tie with positive natured Samurott and Ludicolo. An Adamant nature will help Luxray hit Alomomola harder, but being able to tie with Ludicolo and Samurott is important. Flame Orb activates Guts, which is needed to attain the needed Guts boost. Using a Toxic Orb instead will lessen the initial damage, but the net damage will be greater than Flame Orb after the third turn. Ice Fang can be used over Facade to better handle Altaria, but a boosted Facade is generally stronger and has more utility.</p>

<p>Luxray is not easy to switch into the battlefield, so a slow Volt Switch user, such as Probopass or Baton Pass Musharna, can get Luxray in safely and also activate Guts quickly. Spikes support from the likes of Cacturne, Garbodor, or Scolipede is useful to help Luxray net some KOs it would otherwise miss out on. A Rapid Spin user can be used to remove entry hazards to prevent Luxray from being worn down more easily, but the majority of viable spinners aren't too useful outside of removing entry hazards. Sawk is a great offensive partner, dealing with both Regirock and Golem. Finally, Articuno and Jynx both make good offensive teammates, checking Tangela and opposing Dragon-types, such as Altaria and Fraxure.</p>

[SET]
name: Wallbreaker
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Volt Switch / Signal Beam
item: Life Orb
ability: Intimidate
nature: Rash
evs: 60 Atk / 252 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set uses Luxray's Special Attack stat alongside its Attack stat to get past certain threats that Luxray can't beat otherwise. Thunderbolt is Luxray's main attack, as it is a reliable STAB move that can get past threats such as Gorebyss while giving Luxray a way to break down Alomomola. Superpower is in the second moveslot, because it's ridiculously powerful coming off Luxray's base 120 Attack stat, nailing Regice and Lickilicky for OHKOs, the former after Stealth Rock and the latter after a Thunderbolt. Superpower cleanly OHKOes Audino and Bastiodon right off the bat. Hidden Power Grass gives Luxray the power to OHKO Seismitoad and Golem, the latter if Sturdy has been broken. This means that Seismitoad in particular no longer walls Luxray to no end. In the last moveslot, it's down to personal preference. Volt Switch lets you scout for switches against Pokemon Luxray checks, such as Braviary, giving you momentum. On the other hand, Signal Beam hits almost every Grass-type hard as well as Psychic-types such as Duosion.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Ice Fang could be used in the last slot in order to hit Altaria, who walls this set otherwise, and it is also the only way to hit Roselia and Vileplume for super effective damage. However, it is not listed because it doesn't make as good use of the EV spread as the other two options do. The EV spread lets Luxray hit with as much power as possible on the special side, giving it a way to hit physical walls, who are this set's main targets, hard while still hitting like a truck on the physical side. The remaining EVs are dumped into Speed to let Luxray outpace max Speed Gorebyss before a Shell Smash and OHKO it with Thunderbolt. Life Orb is used to let Luxray hit hard on both the physical and special side, and a Rash nature boosts Luxray's Special Attack further while not lowering its Attack stat. Intimidate is used due to Guts only boosting Luxray's Attack stat, as well as for it's ability to turn Luxray into a half-decent bulky pivot. However, if you are paranoid about Superpower not being weakened by burn, Guts is still viable, but it's too unreliable to be recommended.</p>

<p>Entry hazard setters are vital to Luxray's success, gaining it many OHKOes and 2HKOes after they have been set up, such as an OHKO on Regice with Superpower. This makes Pokemon such as Garbodor, Cacturne, and Probopass very good teammates For Luxray. Strong special attackers, such as Choice Specs Altaria, make good partners for their ability to lure Pokemon such as Regice in, ready to be KOed or crippled by Superpower. Ice-types such as Jynx and Articuno complement Luxray with their typing and ability to hit Vileplume, Roselia, and Tangela hard, coming in on a Volt Switch or a well predicted double switch. Water-types such as Carracosta, Samurott, and Ludicolo make good teammates for Luxray, hitting Piloswine and Golurk harder than Hidden Power Grass. Fast and frail sweepers such as Swellow and Choice Scarf Charizard make good partners for Luxray as well because it breaks down walls, opening up a late-game sweep for the said Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice
move 1: Wild Charge
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Ice Fang
move 4: Volt Switch / Crunch
item: Choice Band / Choice Scarf
ability: Intimidate / Guts
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a Choice item, Luxray can become an effective wallbreaker or revenge killer. Unlike the Guts set, this does not suffer from residual damage and provides a more immediate threat. Choice Band Luxray faces stiff competition from Eelektross, which packs U-turn, Aqua Tail, and an immunity to Ground-type moves, but Luxray stands out with its greater power and higher Speed stat. Wild Charge is the obligatory STAB move, heavily damaging targets that do not resist it. Superpower is the coverage move of choice, hitting Golem and Regirock, two Pokemon that don't mind Wild Charge. Ice Fang provides decent coverage with Wild Charge and hits Dragon-types and Tangela. Finally, Volt Switch is chosen to scout switch-ins and to allow a more immediately threatening teammate to switch in. However, Crunch can be used to hit Golurk, which takes little from Luxray's other moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>When using a Choice Band, a Jolly nature is allows Luxray to Speed tie with positive natured Samurott and Ludicolo. However, an Adamant nature offers more power and works well with a Choice Scarf. The choice between a Choice Band and Choice Scarf depends on the role that Luxray will play on your team. Intimidate is useful to soften up damage from physical attackers, such as Sawk and Zangoose. However, Guts can be useful to absorb Will-O-Wisp from the likes of Misdreavus.</p>

<p>Sawk is a solid teammate to KO Regirock and Golem while providing solid offensive synergy with Luxray. Golurk is in a similar boat and can also come in on opposing Sawk. Articuno and Jynx can be useful as well, as they check Tangela and Altaria, and again provide great offensive synergy. Additionally, Samurott and Ludicolo handle Regirock effectively. Luxray also appreciates Spikes support to help it net some KOs. Cacturne, Garbodor, and Scolipede are all excellent options for this.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>With Intimidate and decent bulk, Luxray is capable of running a defensive set with Roar, Discharge, and either Toxic or Thunder Wave. However, with Braviary receiving Defiant, this set has lost its main niche. Fire Fang and Ice Fang are options on the Guts set, but a boosted Facade does more damage overall. Howl seems cool as it boosts Attack, but Luxray will rarely be able to boost effectively, with Guts and Choice Band being more reliable. Quick Attack is Luxray's only priority move and can help Luxray pick off weakened threats; however most Luxray sets suffer from four-moveslot syndrome.<p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to its great coverage, Luxray does not have a large number of hard counters. That being said, there are a number of good Luxray checks. Regirock, thanks to its titanic physical bulk, can take most of what Luxray has to offer and can retaliate with Earthquake. Pokemon that can outspeed Luxray, such as Sawk and Zangoose, can deal heavy damage before it can strike back. Luxray is also rather weak before Guts activates, so taking it out before it gets the boost is ideal. As Luxray will get worn down by status and Wild Charge recoil, setting up entry hazards will further shorten its lifespan. Garbodor is good at this, and can take repeated Wild Charges while its Aftermath ability will damage Luxray upon being KOed. Metang has enough physical bulk to take what Luxray has to offer and can hit it with weak Earthquakes. Tangela and Gurdurr are in a similar boat with additional access to recovery moves, healing off any damage Luxray throws at them. Finally, Sawsbuck could come in on Wild Charge and pummel Luxray with its attacks.</p>