[Overview]

<p>Although Machoke lacks the wonder of Drain Punch that Gurdurr holds, it has access to its own STAB move of choice—DynamicPunch—which has an interesting secondary effect—forced confusion. This gives Machoke, which already possesses high Attack and a Defense that is made quite formidable by Eviolite, the ability to handily take down most non-Ghost-type Pokemon. Unfortunately, Machoke is not the champ; it lacks instant recovery like its cousin, Gurdurr, leaving it with an unfortunate inferiority complex.</p>

[SET]
name: RestTalk
move 1: DynamicPunch
move 2: Payback
move 3: Rest
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Eviolite
ability: No Guard
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>DynamicPunch with perfect accuracy, simply put, is one of the best possible STAB moves in the metagame; with it, Machoke creates situations where it wins against incredibly strong opponents as a result of the forced confusion. Payback is not particularly strong, but provides good coverage with DynamicPunch and is Machoke's strongest move against Misdreavus, Haunter, and most Psychic-types. Rest and Sleep Talk pair together to give Machoke the instant recovery it so desperately desires—the former restores HP while the latter ensures that Machoke is not a sitting duck while asleep. Sleep Talk also has the fortunate effect of conserving DynamicPunch's meager 8 PP.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs maximize Attack and HP; the rest are put into Special Defense. Maximum Defense can be used in place of the Attack to trade power for bulk, allowing Machoke to take Brave Birds that it usually cannot; for example, Swellow's Guts-boosted Brave Bird does not OHKO a Machoke with heavy Defense investment. Eviolite is the obvious item of choice, providing a huge boost to Machoke's already decent defenses. Rock Slide and Ice Punch both have perfect coverage with DynamicPunch; thus, either can be used over Payback. Machoke pairs well with anything that fears physical sweepers, Pokemon that Machoke can usually bypass with ease. Clerics like Miltank or Lickilicky are also useful to have around to heal Machoke from sleep. Because Machoke does not fare too well against Psychic-types, Pokemon like Skuntank that can eliminate them are great teammates. The same can be said of Swellow, which eliminates defensive Misdreavus; Machoke can also easily take the Rock-type moves it draws in.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Bulk Up is a fantastic stat-boosting move, but forces Machoke to sacrifice much needed moveslots—Rest and Sleep Talk are nearly mandatory moves and, with them, Machoke only has one attack. Encore is an interesting move that pairs well with Substitute, but creates the same problem as Bulk Up. Bullet Punch is Machoke's sole priority move, but lacks power. Cross Chop has a greater chance of critical hits, but is otherwise inferior to DynamicPunch. Choice Band is tempting, but Machoke is neither fast like Sawk nor a holder of strong STAB priority like Gurdurr, meaning that it is outclassed by other Pokemon that run a Choice Band set. Knock Off lets Machoke remove an item—especially a valuable Eviolite—from its foe. Toxic is a move that fits all Pokemon to dismantle walls; Machoke is one of many that has access to it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Psychic-types leave Machoke in a state of helplessness and force it to flee. Although Kadabra cannot take any hits, it can also OHKO Machoke. Misdreavus's bulk and Ghost typing allow it to force Machoke into stalemate with Sleep Talk. Without the benefit of Leftovers recovery, Spikes can wear Machoke's health down quite quickly. If Machoke is not running maximum Defense, Braviary and Swellow comfortably OHKO Machoke with Brave Bird. Swanna can OHKO Machoke with Hurricane, which even has perfect accuracy due to No Guard. Golbat laughs at Machoke's pitiful attempts at damage and wins in the end, barring luck from DynamicPunch's confusion. Garbodor, which Machoke can only hit with weak non-STAB moves, turns Machoke into a setup opportunity if confusion does not strike. In general, Trick and Knock Off neuter Machoke and make it far less troublesome by removing its Eviolite.</p>