[Overview]

<p>Magmar is not a very traditional choice for a Fire-type in NU, and it's not hard to see why. The existence of Charizard&mdash;a stronger, faster, and more versatile threat&mdash;makes it difficult for Magmar to succeed, and it struggles to set itself apart from its competition. Luckily, not all is lost for Magmar; it sports a fair amount of bulk thanks to Eviolite, allowing it to tank hits better than its Fire-type brethren. This combined with Magmar's useful ability, Vital Spirit, gives Magmar a niche as a counter to the various Grass-types of the tier, absorbing Sleep Powder thanks to Vital Spirit and threatening them with a Fire-type move. It is also one of the more notable checks to Jynx, capably tanking any hit aside from Life Orb-boosted Psychic or Psyshock and OHKOing in return. That being said, Magmar is still a poor choice on many teams for a reason: its decent bulk is severely hampered by its bad defensive typing and lack of reliable recovery (even Charizard gets Roost). All in all, Magmar is a solid performer in NU, but never dismiss your other options before using it, as they will likely perform far better than Magmar ever will.</p>

[SET]
name: Eviolite Attacker
move 1: Flamethrower
move 2: Focus Blast
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Will-O-Wisp / Substitute
item: Eviolite
ability: Vital Spirit
nature: Modest
evs: 200 HP / 248 SpA / 60 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is Magmar's best way to set itself apart from the likes of Charizard, as it takes advantage of its Eviolite-boosted bulk and Vital Spirit. Magmar is played as a bit of a bulky offensive supporter, providing a decent switch-in to Grass-types and Jynx and OHKOing in return with Flamethrower. Focus Blast is Magmar's primary coverage move, denting Rock-types such as Regirock and providing solid overall coverage. Hidden Power Grass is Magmar's best option against bulky Water-types such as Alomomola and Seismitoad; it is also notable for damaging the likes of Carracosta and Golem without Focus Blast's miss chance. Finally, Will-O-Wisp adds a bit to Magmar's supportive qualities, burning physical attackers and patching up Magmar's lackluster Defense. On the other hand, Substitute can be used to help ease prediction, but keep in mind that Magmar often wears itself down rather quickly between both Stealth Rock and Substitute damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread accomplishes a few things. Firstly, 60 Speed EVs are used to outspeed minimum Speed Miltank. 200 HP EVs give Magmar a total of 321 HP, letting it switch in to Stealth Rock four times without dying. Finally, the rest is put into Special Attack with a Modest nature to power up Magmar's attacks. This EV spread is fairly customizable; for example, an alternative spread of 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe coupled with a Timid nature maximizes Magmar's offensive potential, letting Magmar pose as a larger overall threat. However, this detracts from its bulk, which is its main selling point over Charizard. Likewise, a bulkier spread with investment in Special Defense allows Magmar to tank a fair few more hits; sadly, this does not work well with both Magmar's lack of recovery and poor defensive typing, and it loses power by doing so. Fire Blast and Lava Plume can be considered over Flamethrower as a Fire-type STAB, with the former boasting a higher Base Power and the latter having a higher chance to burn the opposition. However, Flamethrower is the most consistent out of the three. Finally, Hidden Power Ice and Rock are two potential options over Hidden Power Grass, as they both hit Altaria for super effective damage, and the latter also scores an OHKO on Charizard. However, hitting Water-types is far more important, making Hidden Power Grass the superior option most of the time.</p>

<p>As Magmar lacks reliable recovery, Wish passers are highly recommended to help make up for that. Alomomola is unarguably the best candidate for this role, as it can pass massive Wishes to Magmar while also benefiting greatly from Magmar's ability to remove Grass-types from the field. In general, most Pokemon that dislike Grass-types enjoy Magmar's services; Water-, Fighting-, and Ground-types are just a few examples of Pokemon that appreciate Magmar's support, and they can also break down the Rock-types that Magmar struggles to beat.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Magmar has a relatively expansive movepool, but sadly, most of its other options are outclassed by something else. It can choose to go on a more offensive route with Life Orb or Choice Specs, but this is sorely outclassed by Charizard, which is both stronger, faster, and boasts an additional Flying-type STAB. In a similar vein, Choice Scarf is a poor item choice, as Magmar falls just short of the popular base 95 Speed of common Choice Scarf users and as a result is often an inferior option. It can opt to use its other ability, Flame Body, to make physical attackers think twice before attacking it, but Vital Spirit has more overall utility and Magmar already has Will-O-Wisp to burn physical attackers. Toxic can cripple walls, but it's generally not as useful as Will-O-Wisp in the long run. Psychic can be used, but it doesn't really add much to Magmar's coverage. Magmar has a solid physical movepool with gems such as Flare Blitz, Cross Chop, ThunderPunch, and Mach Punch while also having a satisfactory base 95 Attack to back it up; it even has Belly Drum to set up. While all this might sound appealing on paper, it's extremely difficult to pull off in practice, and Magmar suffers many move illegalities among these moves as well. Likewise, a mixed set also might sound decent on paper, but all it really ends up doing is splitting Magmar's offenses and hindering its bulk with a Defense-lowering nature. Flame Charge can boost Magmar's Speed, but Magmar isn't a suitable sweeper. Finally, Magmar can set up Sunny Day for itself and its teammates, but it's once again outclassed by Charizard, which can utilize Solar Power along with the sun.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Magmar isn't very difficult to counter, as it's not excessively strong and lacks reliable recovery. Bulky Water-types, such as Alomomola, Samurott, and Ludicolo, all can comfortably tank a Hidden Power Grass and threaten back with their STABs. Fire-types also have little to fear from Magmar; Charizard in particular resists all of Magmar's common moves, can Roost off the damage, and dent it with Air Slash. Ground- and Rock-types can easily crush Magmar with their STABs. Camerupt gets a special mention with its immunity to Will-O-Wisp and resistance to Flamethrower. Most special walls, such as Lickilicky and Audino, counter Magmar effectively, as they can tank even Focus Blast and Wish off the damage. Bulky Dragon-types such as Altaria, Dragonair, and Zweilous are also solid answers to Magmar, but Zweilous must watch out for Focus Blast. Residual damage severely limits Magmar's longevity&mdash;its weakness to all forms of entry hazards isn't doing it any favors, either. Finally, despite Magmar's good bulk, strong attacks such as Sawk's Close Combat and Braviary's Brave Bird can still pummel it to the ground.</p>