[Overview]

<p>Mandibuzz is one of the best defensive Pokemon in NU. Thanks to its combination of great bulk, good Speed, and awesome support moves, Mandibuzz can function as an effective pivot, wall, and stallbreaker in one teamslot. On top of this, Mandibuzz's typing lets it check many of the Psychic-types in the tier. Balanced and defensive teams really appreciate the support that Mandibuzz offers because it can help beat opposing stall teams with its fast Taunt and many offensive threats with its STAB Foul Play. Unfortunately, Mandibuzz's Stealth Rock weakness makes it more difficult to switch into powerful attacks. Its few resistances also hold Mandibuzz back, forcing it to rely strictly on its bulk in order to take hits. Finally, Taunt and Encore completely shut down Mandibuzz and keep it from doing its job effectively.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Foul Play
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Roost
move 4: Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Big Pecks
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 148 Def / 112 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Mandibuzz is best played as a fast, defensive Pokemon that can both take hits and break down walls and tanks with Toxic and Taunt. One of the main reasons to use Mandibuzz is its access to STAB Foul Play, a move that hits opposing offensive Pokemon for solid damage and compensates for its low offensive stats. Taunt, when used with Mandibuzz's great Speed, helps to break down opposing walls and stall teams by preventing them from using their support moves and forcing them to attack. Roost provides Mandibuzz with reliably recovery to keep itself healthy throughout the match. Finally, Toxic is used to break down opposing walls and wear down the Pokemon that Foul Play fails to take out.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread for this set allows Mandibuzz to outspeed Timid Gorebyss and use Taunt to prevent it from setting up or Toxic to hinder it after a Shell Smash. The remaining EVs are placed in HP and Defense to help it take on neutral physical attacks, as Mandibuzz's weaknesses to common Ice- and Electric-type attacks make it difficult to run a specially defensive spread. Still, Mandibuzz's EVs are very easy to change around to fit your team's needs. Big Pecks is used on this set because its other abilities are entirely inferior, and with Big Pecks, Mandibuzz can prevent Defense drops from moves such as Samurott's Razor Shell. A lot of other moves can be used on this set as well, depending on what kind of support your team needs. Brave Bird can be used over Foul Play to hit Fighting-types and Ludicolo for greater damage. On more offensive teams, U-turn can be used to let Mandibuzz come in to take a hit and pivot out into a teammate to keep up offensive momentum. On more defensive teams, Mandibuzz can utilize other support moves such as Knock Off, Whirlwind, and Substitute.</p>

<p>There are many different Pokemon that make good teammates for Mandibuzz. A special wall or tank can form a good defensive core with Mandibuzz; Audino, Lickilicky, and Regice can all serve this role. The first two can provide much appreciated Heal Bell support for Mandibuzz with the added bonus of Wish support to compensate for Stealth Rock damage. Regice also works well because of its resistance to Ice-type attacks and its ability to beat most Electric-types. Because Stealth Rock is such a problem for a defensive Pokemon like Mandibuzz, having a spinner can be really useful to get rid of Stealth Rock. Wartortle is a good choice for a spinner, as it can take on many Ice- and Rock-type Pokemon. In general, tanks that share good defensive synergy with Mandibuzz make good partners for it; Piloswine resists Ice-types attacks, is immune to Electric-type attacks, and beats most Rock-type Pokemon, while Seismitoad resists Rock-type attacks and is also immune to Electric-type attacks.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Mandibuzz can't run many sets outside of the one covered. One potential set that might be appealing is a Nasty Plot set with coverage moves such as Dark Pulse, Heat Wave, and Air Slash. The problem with this set is that Mandibuzz needs multiple boosts before it has any kind of offensive presence, and many other Pokemon can run sets like this one much better. When looking at other options, you're typically better off running a set similar to the one listed with other moves. One potential option for another move is Punishment, a move that can take out many setup sweepers thanks to the boost in power it gets for every stat boost the opponent has. Unfortunately, Mandibuzz isn't capable of utilizing this move well, as Foul Play take out most offensive sweepers well enough as it is, and Punishment relies on the opponent boosting in order to make good use of it. Snarl is another interesting option for Mandibuzz, as it helps it defeat the special attackers that like to switch into it. Finally, Rain Dance and Sunny Day can work well on weather teams, as there aren't very many bulky Pokemon in the tier that have access to these two moves and can fit it onto their sets.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The easiest way of defeating Mandibuzz is to overwhelm it with strong attackers. If you give it a free turn to switch in and Roost, Mandibuzz is going to be an issue for your team, as most defensive Pokemon cannot outspeed it and hit it with a status move before being Taunted. In fact, Regirock, Probopass, and Bastiodon are some of the only defensive Pokemon that can take Mandibuzz out, as they all typically carry a super effective STAB to hit Mandibuzz with and take minimal damage from Foul Play thanks to their massive defenses. You should also aim to get Stealth Rock up as soon as possible in the match to hinder Mandibuzz when it tries to switch into attacks. Faster Pokemon carrying Toxic can also cripple Mandibuzz and make it even harder for it to switch into attacks. Truly the easiest way to take out Mandibuzz offensively is by exploiting its weaknesses. Ice-types such as Jynx, Regice, and Rotom-F; Electric-types such as Rotom-S and Eelektross; and Rock-types such as Rampardos, Golem, and Carracosta are all able to pick off Mandibuzz with their powerful STAB attacks. Finally, bulky Fighting-types, such as Gurdurr and Throh, benefit from taking a Toxic thanks to Guts and often carry coverage moves to hit Mandibuzz for super effective damage. Even if Mandibuzz uses Roost against them, Gurdurr and Throh can hit it with their powerful Fighting-type attacks for super effective damage.</p>