[Overview]

<p>With Mantine finally getting access to a useful Flying-type STAB move that isn't Hidden Power Flying, it has established a very solid niche for itself in the NU metagame. STAB-boosted Air Slash allows it to break through Grass-types such as Roselia and effectively dispatch Ludicolo, achievements not many other rain sweepers can boast. This position as one of the best Ludicolo counters also makes it a solid option to combat opposing rain teams. Two useful abilities allow it to compete in both offensive and defensive roles, with Swift Swim giving it the speed to take out many threats while Water Absorb allows it to wall and defeat rain sweepers and other Water-types.</p>

[SET]
name: MANtine (Rain Dance)
move 1: Rain Dance
move 2: Hydro Pump
move 3: Air Slash
move 4: Ice Beam / Hidden Power Electric
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim 
nature: Modest
evs: 64 HP / 252 SpA / 192 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As one can imagine, the ability to beat the usual counters to rain sweepers makes Mantine a great sweeper itself as well as a fantastic choice for a dedicated rain team. Almost every bulky Grass-type will be broken down by STAB Air Slash, which means other Pokemon that benefit from rain can sweep later in the match. Even as a standalone sweeper, the coverage offered by STAB Water- and Flying-type moves is fantastic, although Mantine does face competition from the more powerful but slower (in rain) Swanna. A fantastic Special Defense stat and decent HP also mean Mantine often has an easier time setting up than other rain sweepers, but the unfortunate trade-off is that Mantine is slightly weaker. A weakness to Stealth Rock means that it can also be worn down and revenge killed with priority moves, particularly with Life Orb recoil also taking its toll. Hydro Pump should be used over Surf as Mantine has a relatively low Special Attack stat and it really appreciates the extra Base Power. Air Slash is essential to hit Ludicolo and Roselia, not to mention other troublesome Pokemon like Water Absorb Cacturne. Ice Beam will rarely be used, but it will do significantly more damage against Altaria and other Dragon-types, so it is still occaisionally useful. Alternatively, Hidden Power Electric can be used to beat other Mantine, as well as allowing Mantine to easily check Gorebyss.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The chosen EV spread allows Mantine to outrun Choice Scarf Rotom-S and Rotom-F while it's raining. There is no need to run any more Speed than this, as no significant Pokemon will be outsped and Modest is completely necessary due to Mantine's low Special Attack. Damp Rock is certainly an option for the item slot, increasing the turns of rain and thus turning Mantine into a more support-based rain Pokemon, rather than one focused on wallbreaking and sweeping. The power granted by Life Orb will certainly be missed, however, so bear that in mind if considering using Damp Rock.</p>

<p>The natural place for this set is on a rain team, and as such, Ludicolo, Seismitoad, and Gorebyss all make fantastic partners as they can wear down each other's checks and counters, particularly opposing Ludicolo, Roselia, and other bulky Grass-types. It should be noted that it is not necessary to use all four on the same team, however. Dedicated special walls such as Lickilicky and Audino still wall Mantine, so powerful Fighting-types are great choices for teammates. Sawk in particular will dispose of them easily, as will Gurdurr. Alternatively, Golurk is immune to most things those walls can do, while sharing fantastic synergy with Mantine.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Scald
move 4: Air Slash
item: Leftovers
ability: Water Absorb
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Mantine already has an excessive amount of special bulk, so it can easily run a set focusing on patching up its physical bulk in order to take advantage of its interesting typing and check the likes of Golurk, Sawk, and Piloswine, while also being a great counter to Gurdurr. It remains a great answer to Ludicolo and other rain sweepers, particularly with Water Absorb. Unfortunately, the only recovery Mantine has is RestTalk, but it is just bulky enough to use it without ending up a sitting duck. This lack of recovery can still hurt, however, considering Mantine is weak to Stealth Rock, but it can still be used. Scald is a fantastic move for a defensive Pokemon and means that very few Pokemon are 100% safe switching into Mantine, always fearing that potentially game changing burn. Air Slash hits Roselia and Cacturne, and being able to beat both while also absorbing sleep is a massive boon for Mantine.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Defense is used to allow Mantine to effectively beat Fighting- and Ground-types, while the odd HP number is used to minimize the damage taken from Stealth Rock. It is also viable to use a specially defensive spread, which lets Mantine take on pretty much every special attacker without an Electric-type move, but such a spread loses out on the ability to counter many of the threats mentioned earlier, such as Gurdurr, Piloswine, and Golurk. Water Absorb is fantastic for beating dedicated rain sweepers, and the extra recovery can really help, particularly if Stealth Rock is on the field. Toxic is always an option, but Mantine really doesn't want to give up Scald or Air Slash and appreciates the utility both Rest and Sleep Talk provide. Replacing Sleep Talk can leave it a sitting duck occasionally, while without Rest, Mantine becomes very easy to wear down.</p>

<p>Despite having Rest and Sleep Talk, Mantine still greatly appreciates support from a Wish passer, and, perhaps even more, from a cleric. Heal Bell can wake Mantine up from sleep, meaning it can come in and do its job multiple times. Lickilicky in particular carries Wish and Heal Bell while taking on special attackers with ease, and it also appreciates Mantine's ability to beat Fighting-types. Mantine is very easy prey for Volt Switch users, as they can easily force Mantine out and grab momentum. Naturally, Ground-types are excellent partners, particularly Golem and Golurk. Both of these Pokemon can set up Stealth Rock while simultaneously putting pressure back on the opponent, as well as having excellent synergy with Mantine. Piloswine can make another fantastic partner.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Mantine gets a few other interesting moves, but struggles to fit them onto a moveset. Mirror Coat and Haze would probably both get a lot of use if Mantine had reliable recovery outside of Rest to use them with. Protect is also a great move for scouting Choice Volt Switch users, but it can be hard to fit onto a moveset. Even Tailwind could be useful for supporting teammates without Swift Swim that still want the Speed boost, but it is hard to pull off and situational. While Mantine's movepool is large, lots of it is unfortunately useless due to its terrible base 40 Attack.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mantine actually does a decent job beating itself, as defensive sets can take on most Rain Dance sets with ease, while forcing a stalemate against themselves. Dedicated special walls such as Lickilicky and Audino also wall the offensive sets. Storm Drain Cradily can pull off a similar trick and threaten Mantine with STAB Rock-type moves. A great way to beat Mantine is to exploit its vulnerability to Electric-types; Rotom-S, Rotom-F, Electabuzz, Ampharos, and almost all other Electric-types do a great job in this regard. Samurott and Gorebyss carrying Hidden Power Electric can also quickly dispatch of Mantine. Lapras is a fine alternative option to deal with Mantine, packing Water Absorb of its own to combat the Rain Dance set's boosted STAB Water-type moves, and being able to respond with Thunderbolt. Gardevoir makes a great check by tracing either Water Absorb or Swift Swim, then outspeeding and OHKOing Mantine with Thunderbolt.</p>