[Overview]

<p>Out of all the Steel-types in the game, Mawile has always been ignored. With a base stat total of only 380, there's no wonder why Mawile is overlooked, but it has finally found a niche in NU&mdash;in fact, multiple niches. A unique combination of amazing abilities and a good movepool makes Mawile the most versatile Steel-type in NU. It can effectively pull off defensive, offensive, and Baton Pass sets, and access to Intimidate coupled with its pure Steel typing allows it to wall many common threats. Mawile can also pose an offensive threat, with a powerful combination of good coverage, Sheer Force, Swords Dance, and priority. Mawile is also vital to many Baton Pass chains, due to its typing and access to boosting moves.</p>

<p>However, not all fares well for our cute Steel-type, as subpar stats limit its ability to perform these roles. Even though Mawile walls many common threats in NU, it is also forced out by others, such as Sawk and Defiant Braviary. Although these faults limit Mawile's capability to be a top-tier Pokemon, do not underestimate Mawile or it will leave you behind in rust.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Pain Split
move 3: Seismic Toss
move 4: Toxic / Taunt / Super Fang
item: Leftovers
ability: Intimidate
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>An excellent defensive typing and an amazing ability in Intimidate allow Mawile to counter omnipresent threats to teams, such as Kangaskhan, Swellow, Dragon Dance Fraxure, and Skuntank. Intimidate makes Mawile one of the best pivots in the game, as it can buffer physical attacks for itself and its teammates. Mawile is also a great check to Zangoose, a threat to every single team, as it resists three-fourths of Zangoose's moveset, while also lowering its attack with Intimidate for Mawile's teammates to take Close Combat&mdash; which, after being affected by Intimidate, doesn't even OHKO Mawile. Although Intimidate is a great ability on Mawile, do not try switching Mawile into Pokemon with the ability Defiant, such as Braviary, as they will receive an attack boost.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is essential to many teams, and Mawile is a great user of the move, as it has multiple opportunities to set it up throughout a match. Pain Split makes use of Mawile's low HP, and is its only form of recovery outside of Rest. Seismic Toss is a great source of reliable damage and allows Mawile to hurt Taunt users, such as Skuntank. Toxic cripples many Pokemon that would otherwise be able to recover off Seismic Toss damage, such as Alomomola. Taunt protects Mawile from status moves, such as Sleep Powder from Vileplume, while also preventing other Pokemon setting up on Mawile, such as Musharna. Super Fang cripples certain Pokemon by stripping off half of their current HP, and it works well with Seismic Toss's reliable damage output and Taunt's prevention of recovery.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum HP and Defense investment, along with an Impish nature, makes the best of Mawile's physical bulk and Intimidate. Leftovers gives much-needed passive recovery to Mawile, so it can wall threats throughout the match. Knock Off is a nifty utility move which can be used over any of the moves listed to cripple Eviolite users, such as Gurdurr or Misdreavus, that Mawile tends to lure in. Seismic Toss is usually the best and most reliable option Mawile has for damage output, but Iron Head can be used to hit Ghost-types, such as Haunter. Rocky Helmet can be used over Leftovers to wear down opposing Pokemon, such as Swellow or Zangoose. Wish recovery from teammates, such as Alomomola, is helpful, as Pain Split isn't the most reliable recovery method. Bulky Psychic-types work well with Mawile, considering their great type-synergy; Grumpig gets a special mention as it “resists” Fire-type attacks due to Thick Fat. Altaria is also another great teammate for Mawile, as they cover each others’ weaknesses.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Iron Head
move 3: Sucker Punch
move 4: Ice Punch
item: Life Orb
ability: Sheer Force
nature: Jolly
evs: 28 HP / 252 Atk / 228 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With the release of Sheer Force, Swords Dance Mawile has become a potent offensive threat. Mawile's Attack reaches a decent 538 after a Swords Dance boost, which can be further boosted by Life Orb and Sheer Force. Obtaining Swords Dance boosts are fairly easy, with Mawile's great defensive typing and decent physical bulk. Iron Head is a powerful STAB, which is boosted by Sheer Force. Sucker Punch gives Mawile invaluable priority, as it allows Mawile to KO faster threats, such as Swellow, and it also somewhat makes up for Mawile's low base Speed stat. Ice Punch is Mawile's main source of coverage which is also boosted by Sheer Force. A Swords Dance-boosted Ice Punch allows Mawile to 2HKO Tangela, one of the bulkiest physical walls in NU.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Attack investment gives Mawile optimal damage output, while the 228 Speed EVs with a Jolly nature outspeed maximum Speed Torterra and everything below. The rest of the EVs are invested in HP for a slight increase in overall bulk. An Adamant nature can be used for more power if you are not concerned with speed. If choosing an Adamant nature, an EV spread of 40 HP / 252 Atk / 216 Spe allows Mawile to outspeed maximum Speed Golem. Entry hazards make Mawile's sweep easier by turning certain 3HKOs into 2HKOs and 2HKOs into OHKOs. Stealth Rock users, such as Golem, and Spikes users, such as Cacturne or Garbodor, are excellent Pokemon to consider as teammates to lay entry hazards for Mawile. Note that Sheer Force-boosted moves lose their secondary effects, as such, going for pinch flinches or freezes is fruitless. Choice Specs Altaria easily breaks down physical walls that haunt Mawile, while their typings complement each other excellently.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Iron Defense / Swords Dance
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Taunt
move 4: Substitute
item: Leftovers
ability: Intimidate
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 HP / 28 Def / 228 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As the only Steel-type in the tier with access to Baton Pass, Mawile stands out as an invaluable asset to Baton Pass teams. Mawile’s access to Intimidate and immunity to Clear Smog, which can ruin any chain without an intact Substitute, allow it to perform its job of passing Iron Defense and Swords Dance boosts admirably. Note that passing Iron Defense boosts are easier in the face of physical attackers, due to the extra Defense boosts. Taunt is also extremely useful on Mawile, as it prevents many ways of stopping Baton Pass chains, such as Perish Song, Haze, opposing Taunts, and phazing moves. Substitute is also useful on Mawile, as it allows a safe switch for its teammate as it Baton Passes and shields Mawile from status moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>228 Speed EVs along with a Jolly nature allows Mawile to outspeed maximum Speed Torterra, allowing it to Baton Pass before being hit by Earthquake. The rest of the EVs are put into HP and Defense, easing Mawile’s setup. A bulkier spread of 252 HP / 252 Def with an Impish nature can be used for more bulk, but Mawile will not outspeed much, even with speed boosts from teammates. Iron Head can be used to prevent Mawile from being completely useless against faster Taunt users, while making use of Swords Dance's attack boosts. Other Baton Pass users, such as Floatzel or Gorebyss, are good teammates for Mawile, as they share good synergy by resisting Fire-type attacks aimed at it. Mr. Mime and Ninjask are other Baton Pass users that are also great teammates for Mawile, as they are integral parts of Baton Pass chains. Mr. Mime has good synergy, while negating Perish Song and Roar, due to Soundproof. Ninjask can pass Speed boosts to Mawile, allowing it to outspeed and set up Iron Defense in front of once faster physical attackers, in addition to being able to Baton Pass out of Pokemon that threaten it before they can make a move. Musharna is also a great teammate for Mawile, as the Iron Defense boosts received from Mawile make it more physically bulky, and simultaneously boost Stored Power. Cradily is another good recipient of Mawile's boosts, as it avoids any sort of phazing through Suction Cups, while making good use of either Iron Defense or Swords Dance boosts.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Mawile has quite a couple of options due to its diverse movepool. Mawile can use a SubPunch set with Pain Split and a Life Orb, but it is generally too weak; Mawile is usually better off trying to sweep with Swords Dance. Weather teams can make use of Mawile's Steel typing, Intimidate, and access to both Sunny Day and Rain Dance. However, other Pokemon, such as Prankster Volbeat, set up Rain Dance or Sunny Day more effectively. A bulky Swords Dance spread, consisting of an EV spread of 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 Def , with a moveset of Swords Dance, Pain Split, Iron Head, and Sucker Punch attempt to combine Mawile's offensive and defensive capabilities into one, but is pitifully weak without any Swords Dance boosts. ThunderPunch can be used over Ice Punch on the Swords Dance set to hit Water-types, such as Alomomola, super effectively, but provides no further coverage. Crunch can be used over Sucker Punch on the Swords Dance set to take advantage of the Sheer Force boost, but Mawile really appreciates the priority that Sucker Punch provides. Rock Slide gets boosted by Sheer Force and hits Flying-, Bug-, and Fire-types harder than any other moves Mawile has. Fire Fang can be used over Ice Punch to hit Klang and other Mawile super effectively. Body Slam allows Mawile to spread paralysis on the defensive set.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Moderately powerful special attackers, such as Ludicolo or Electabuzz, can leave huge dents in Mawile, or just outright OHKO it. Combusken resists all of Mawile's moves and easily OHKOes with either of its STABs. Braviary receives an Attack boost from Mawile that switch into it, due to Defiant, and forces it out the threat of Superpower. Sawk can easily revenge kill Mawile, as it resists Sucker Punch and KOes with Close Combat. Gurdurr has little problem setting up on Mawile with Bulk Up, as Mawile fails to do much damage to it after a couple of Defense boosts. Jolly Torterra can outspeed Mawile and KO it with Earthquake. Misdreavus can avoid Sucker Punch by burning Mawile with Will-O-Wisp, crippling it, but Misdreavus should be wary of Crunch or losing its Eviolite due to Knock Off. Seismitoad can tank hits from Mawile and KO it with Earth Power. Even though Mawile's typing gives it multiple resistances, it struggles with weaknesses to common attacks in NU, such as Earthquake and Fire Blast.</p>