[Overview]

<p>Mightyena has never been the best Dark-type in the lower tiers, having strong competition with other Dark-type such as Skuntank, Mandibuzz, and Liepard, but Mightyena has one thing going for it: Moxie. Although its base stats aren't that good, Mightyena is fast enough to outspeed a good amount of Pokemon in the tier, is strong enough to abuse Moxie, and has access to a powerful priority move in Sucker Punch. Sadly, Mightyena relies a lot on Sucker Punch because of its Speed, which makes it prone to being set up on by faster opponents such as Serperior, Scolipede, and Jynx. It also has problems with the popular Fighting-types in NU and lacks Pursuit to make the most of its typing. Despite that, the hyena is hard to stop when it gains an Attack boost, which makes it quite threatening.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Sucker Punch
move 2: Crunch
move 3: Substitute
move 4: Taunt / Toxic
item: BlackGlasses / Lum Berry
ability: Moxie
nature: Adamant / Jolly
EVs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is pretty much the best Mightyena can pull off in NU. Sucker Punch is mandatory, allowing Mightyena to overcome its middling Speed and to have a chance against faster opponents, which can make it quite scary after some Moxie boosts. Crunch is a more reliable STAB, mostly used against slower Pokemon or a faster opponent trying to set up on Mightyena or status it. Substitute is here so Mightyena can avoid status moves from slower Pokemon or by forcing out Psychic- and Ghost-types such as Musharna, Misdreavus, Gardevoir, and Jynx. Finally, Taunt or Toxic can be used in the fourth moveslot. Taunt helps to prevent entry hazards and phazing moves, while Toxic helps Mightyena a lot against walls it can't do much against, such as Regirock and Alomomola.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An Adamant nature is chosen over Jolly because Mightyena needs the extra power due to its low offenses, but Jolly allows Mightyena to outspeed faster Ghost- and Psychic-type such as Adamant or Modest Drifblim and Modest Gardevoir. BlackGlasses is the preferred item as it gives Mightyena the power to guarantee a 2HKO against Musharna after Stealth Rock and to OHKO against Muk after two boost and Stealth Rock. Lum Berry also has some good uses, as it helps Mightyena against Jynx and lets it switch in on status moves from Pokemon such as Musharna and Misdreavus. Howl can also be used over Taunt or Toxic, allowing Mightyena to get a boost behind a Substitute or from a forced switch and OHKO Pokemon such as Roselia and Misdreavus, but Taunt and Toxic's support from Mightyena is more useful most of the time. Life Orb can also be used over BlackGlasses or Lum Berry, as it gives Mightyena more power, but Mightyena will faint quickly with the Life Orb recoil and Substitute.</p>

<p>Since Mightyena can remove Psychic- and Ghost-types, Fighting-types such as Gurdurr, Sawk, and Primeape are all great partners to it, as they can easily KO Steel-types and wear down bulkier Pokemon so Mightyena can pick them off later in the game. Garbodor pairs well with Mightyena, as it can take any Bug- or Fighting-type move for Mightyena and set up entry hazards to wear down physical walls for it, while Mightyena can take on Psychic-types for Garbodor. Golurk is also an amazing partner for Mightyena as Golurk is immune to Fighting-type moves, able to take on the Steel-types that wall Mightyena with its STAB Earthquake, and can set up Stealth Rock to support the team. Meanwhile, Mightyena can deal with the Ghost-types that force Golurk out.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Mightyena's movepool is quite scarce, but there are some interesting options in it. Mightyena has access to some decent support moves such as Roar, Yawn, and Torment, but is too frail to use them effectively. Mightyena can also use Dig or Rock Smash to deal with the Steel-types in NU, but they are either easy to avoid or too weak to be viable. Mightyena also has access to Ice Fang, Thunder Fang, Fire Fang, and Return, which at first glance might seem to be good, but Mightyena's STABs are stronger most of the time and it should always be paired with Pokemon able to deal with Steel-types and bulky Pokemon anyway. Finally, Dark Gem could be used over BlackGlasses to make the first Sucker Punch stronger, but Mightyena needs BlackGlasses to KO some Pokemon after a boost.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mightyena isn't hard to take on due to its poor coverage, low Speed, and general frailty. The most common options to counter Mightyena are Fighting-types such as Gurdurr, Sawk, Throh, and Primeape, which resist its STAB and can easily finish it off with their own STAB attacks. Another way to stop Mightyena is by the use of faster priority users such as Kangaskhan, Swellow, Zangoose, and Floatzel, as they won't get hit by Sucker Punch, but keep in mind that Mightyena can predict this and strike back with a strong Crunch. Faster Pokemon with Substitute are also a problem as they can easily avoid Sucker Punch, allowing them to strike back next turn without fear. Steel-types such as Probopass, Metang, and Bastiodon are the bane of Mightyena's existance, taking nothing from its STAB attacks with their amazing bulk and typing. Bulky Pokemon such as Piloswine, Golem, Torterra, and Tangela can also easily take a hit from Mightyena and strike back. Finally, Mightyena can't take neutral hits either due to its frailty, easily getting 2HKO by most Pokemon in the tier.</p>