[Overview]

<p>Munchlax has great special bulk with Eviolite, allowing it to take hits from many special attackers in the tier. Thick Fat is also a great ability that patches up Munchlax's lack of resistances. In addition, it can take on both Charizard and Jynx, two of the most prominent special threats in NU. Munchlax also has a usable base Attack along with a decent offensive movepool, which means it can be somewhat threatening to opposing Pokemon. However, Munchlax must rely on RestTalk for recovery, and with the fifth generation sleep mechanics, this can often lead to Munchlax being dead weight without cleric support. Munchlax also has a weakness to Fighting-type moves, which can make it bait for threats such as Sawk and Primeape. While its base Attack is decent, it is also not always going to deal sufficient damage. Lastly, Munchlax is the slowest Pokemon in NU, which means it will always have to take damage in order to deal some back.</p>

[SET]
name: RestTalk
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Body Slam
move 4: Whirlwind
item: Eviolite
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Careful
evs: 136 HP / 120 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With great bulk from Eviolite, Munchlax makes for a very solid special wall capable of walling the majority of special attackers in the tier. Thick Fat also makes Munchlax one of the best answers to Charizard and Jynx and allows it to stand out from its main competition, Lickilicky. This set is excellent on stall teams, but it is usually a hindrance on other kinds of teams due to it often causing its team to lose momentum. Rest serves as Munchlax's sole form of recovery, and while it is often a poor form of recovery with the sleep counter being reset upon switching, Munchlax has enough bulk to survive until it awakens most of the time. Sleep Talk is useful, as it allows Munchlax to accomplish something while asleep, and along with Thick Fat, makes Munchlax an excellent Jynx counter. Body Slam is used for a decently powerful STAB move that can also spread paralysis, which is useful against faster teams. Whirlwind prevents Munchlax from becoming setup fodder and also racks up entry hazard damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread gives Munchlax enough special bulk to take repeated Focus Blasts from Jynx after Stealth Rock, while also giving it enough physical bulk to withstand Psyshock. Munchlax's high HP stat makes maximum investment unnecessary. A Careful nature and Eviolite are chosen to further enhance Munchlax's special bulk. Return is a usable option over Body Slam because, although the power difference is not significant, its lack of a paralysis chance can be useful, as fully defensive teams might prefer to spread poison and burn instead.</p>

<p>Entry hazard support is advisable for Whirlwind to be utilized to its full effect; Garbodor, Roselia, and Scolipede are all ideal choices for this. Munchlax appreciates Heal Bell support in the event that it gets forced out of the battle while asleep; Misdreavus and Musharna are both excellent choices, and both have great synergy with Munchlax. The former is also very useful to spinblock the entry hazards that Munchlax appreciates so much. Alomomola is a great teammate for Munchlax as well, as it is able to pass massive Wishes for it and also wall physical attackers. Mandibuzz can also be useful as a secondary wall that can also phaze. Finally, Munchlax appreciates Rapid Spin support from Wartortle and Torkoal to prevent it from being worn down easily. Do keep in mind that Rapid Spin support is not required and generally support from Wish is enough to counteract the damage from entry hazards.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Tank
move 1: Body Slam / Return
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Pursuit
move 4: Toxic / Sleep Talk / Curse
item: Eviolite
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 120 Def / 136 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes on a more offensive approach with Munchlax and aims to not only take hits but also hit decently hard in return. This variant of Munchlax fits on more offensive teams that are looking for Munchlax's unique defensive qualities, but do not want to lose momentum with the standard RestTalk set. Body Slam serves as a strong and reliable STAB move, and the paralysis chance can be especially helpful for slower teams. Return, however, packs more power at the cost of the paralysis chance. Earthquake serves as a great coverage move, hitting Golem and Bastiodon for good damage. Pursuit is a useful move as Munchlax can trap Jynx with it and also take any attack from it with Thick Fat and solid special bulk. The last moveslot all depends on what role you need fulfilled. Toxic wears down bulkier targets such as Tangela and Alomomola, making them easier to deal with later on. Sleep Talk, however, allows Munchlax to absorb Lovely Kiss from Jynx. Curse is a great boosting move to increase Munchlax's usable Attack stat to formidable levels, while giving it great physical bulk as well.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread gives Munchlax all of the power needed for it to be effective, while also giving it enough special bulk to withstand two Life Orb Hydro Pumps from Samurott, even after Stealth Rock. An Adamant nature is chosen to further enhance Munchlax's Attack, and Thick Fat allows it to endure hits from Charizard and Jynx. Garbodor and Scolipede can endure Fighting-type moves for Munchlax and can also provide entry hazard support. Misdreavus and Musharna can make a good core with Munchlax and can also heal status with Heal Bell. Primeape is also a great teammate to remove Pokemon such as Probopass and attract Psychic-types to use U-turn on and send Munchlax in. Finally, Alomomola can pass Wishes to Munchlax to keep it healthy so that it can repeatedly check special threats.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There aren't many viable options for Munchlax to consider aside from the ones listed. The elemental punches can be used as coverage options, but they don't provide much aside from Ice Punch being able to maim Golurk. Zen Headbutt can be useful to pummel incoming Gurdurr and Sawk but has little utility otherwise. Munchlax has other offensive options such as Rock Slide, Gunk Shot, Seed Bomb, and Last Resort, but it can't put any of these to good use. Amnesia and Defense Curl could be used to raise Munchlax's defensive stats; however, these are more often than not a waste of a moveslot. Finally, Munchlax can use Counter to absorb physical hits and hit back hard with its high HP stat.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fighting-types such as Gurdurr, Primeape, and Sawk make great answers to Munchlax, as they are able to remove it quickly and Gurdurr also has enough bulk to take anything that Munchlax has to offer. Golurk can also take most of what Munchlax has to offer and retaliate for heavy damage. Trick users, such as Rotom-S, can remove Munchlax's Eviolite to make it much less of a threat. Because Munchlax has a middling Defense stat even with Eviolite, strong physical attackers such as Carracosta can deal heavy amounts of damage to it. Finally, wearing down Munchlax with constant entry hazard pressure will weaken it to the point where it cannot check any special threats.</p>