[Overview]

<p>With a large non-attacking movepool containing moves such as Calm Mind, Swagger, and FeatherDance to utilize alongside its ability, Prankster, Murkrow can be quite versatile. While it might seem frail at first glance, Eviolite and its access to Roost allow Murkrow to maintain longevity on the field to make its mark. However even with Eviolite, Murkrow is still quite easy to get past, as it takes a lot of damage from the majority of the tier. It faces competition from Liepard, a fellow Prankster user, which has a higher Speed stat to rely on. Mandibuzz, who shares the same typing as Murkrow, also rivals it in terms of bulk and team support.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Roost
move 3: Dark Pulse
move 4: FeatherDance / Substitute
item: Eviolite
ability: Prankster
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Blessed with Prankster, access to Roost, and a decent Special Attack, Murkrow can find success as a Calm Mind user. With Eviolite, Murkrow can last longer on the field and find more opportunities to set up. This set is great for dealing with Psychic-types, such as Gardevoir, but it cannot switch into some of their attacks, as it is still a bit frail. Calm Mind is the center point of this set, raising Dark Pulse's power and making Murkrow more specially defensive. Roost allows Murkrow to heal itself in a pinch, and it gets boosted priority thanks to Prankster. FeatherDance allows Murkrow to deal with the majority of physical attackers in the tier, most notably Sawk, by crippling them. Calm Mind and FeatherDance combine very well to grant Murkrow more chances to force switches and set up. However, Substitute can be used to avoid status conditions that can cripple Murkrow.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>248 HP EVs allow Murkrow to switch into Stealth Rock four times at full HP. 252 Defense EVs and a Bold nature balance out Murkrow's defenses with Calm Mind. Prankster is key to in this set, as it gives Murkrow a boost in priority when using non-attacking moves, which form the majority here. There are not many alternative move selections for this set; the only notable one would be Hidden Power Flying, which allows Murkrow to deal with Fighting-types. However, Dark Pulse offers more power.</p>

<p>If Murkrow isn't using Substitute, status conditions can really hinder its sweeping capabilities. Clerics such as Lickilicky, Musharna, and Vileplume are good partners, as they can tank attacks that Murkrow cannot take. Musharna in particular can also deal with Fighting-types that Murkrow cannot really harm. Sawk is a good ally, as it can deal with Steel-, Rock-, and opposing Dark-types Murkrow can't scratch. Sawk also has nice synergy with Musharna, which can work well in Murkrow's favor. While Jynx cannot switch into Dark Pulse, it can quickly dispose of Murkrow if it hasn't begun setting up Calm Mind; Metang and Choice Scarf Charizard can defeat Jynx. Pokemon that can phaze Murkrow, such as Serperior and Eelektross, can prevent it from setting up successfully. Dragonair is a good counter to Eelektross, and Sap Sipper Miltank and Swellow fare well against Serperior. Miltank also can offer Heal Bell support to Murkrow. Toxic Spikes support is appreciated, as it can weaken the adversary, making it much easier for Murkrow to handle. Garbodor and Scolipede are good partners in that department.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSwagger
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Swagger
move 3: Roost
move 4: Foul Play
item: Eviolite
ability: Prankster
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set relies heavily on luck, but it can be very frustrating to face and often forces lots of switches. The main strategy is to get behind a Substitute, then cripple the opponent with Swagger. While the opponent is struggling to attack, Murkrow can use the Attack boost from Swagger against them with Foul Play, and it can heal itself with Roost when necessary. Substitute allows Murkrow to avoid status and protect itself from weak attacks, while also being used to fish for confusion; potentially getting a Substitute up for free. Swagger and Foul Play are the key aspects of the set. Swagger is a high-risk high-reward type of move, as if it succeeds in making the target hit itself in confusion, Foul Play&mdash;which does damage based off the opponent's Attack stat&mdash;will inflict massive damage. However, if the opponent fails to succumb, Murkrow might take a lot of damage. Roost is the final move of the set, healing Murkrow when necessary.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Eviolite and Prankster are mandatory for this set; those two traits are what make Murkrow worth using. 248 HP allows Murkrow to switch into Stealth Rock four times at full HP. Thunder Wave can be used to cripple the opponent further, but there isn't enough space in Murkrow's moveset for it.</p>

<p>Because this set is luck-based and self-reliant, Murkrow does not require much support. Murkrow forces a lot of switches with this set, so having entry hazards on the field can severely weaken the foe. Carracosta and Scolipede are good examples of entry hazard setters to use with Murkrow. In addition, Murkrow's main job is to weaken the opponent for its teammates, so sweepers who can clean up the remaining opposition, such as Charizard, Jynx, and Ludicolo, make good partners. Taunt can really hinder Murkrow's usefulness if it hits, so be aware of its users in general; there aren't any specific partners to have to defeat them. Finally, Liepard can be used with Murkrow if you want to annoy the opponent even more, as it plays a very similar role to Murkrow.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>With Mean Look, Perish Song, and Prankster, Murkrow can play the role of a perish trapper to net a free KO against a Pokemon or two. However, opponents will often switch in Pokemon that can handle Murkrow before Mean Look can even be used, so it will often fail. Taunt alongside Prankster and Roost can make Murkrow a good stallbreaker, however it faces heavy competition with Mandibuzz, who has superior bulk and is generally fast enough to outspeed walls regardless. A great base 91 Speed, along with powerful offensive moves such as Brave Bird, Heat Wave, and Sucker Punch, gives Murkrow the option of running a successful Life Orb set. However, Murkrow is very frail without an Eviolite and thus easy to KO. Confuse Ray is another move to consider that can cripple the opponent further, but Murkrow rarely finds the space to run it. With a weather rock, Murkrow can be a useful weather inducer, but without Eviolite, it is KOed with ease, and there are many other Pokemon who can fulfill the role better than Murkrow could. Tailwind can be used to further support the team through Speed, but Murkrow has difficulty fitting it into a moveset. A set centered around FeatherDance can be used to cripple physical attackers, but in most cases, using both Calm Mind and FeatherDance produces the best results, as it gives Murkrow better overall defenses. While Murkrow has many other options to consider, very few of them are worth deviating from its standard sets.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taunt users can ruin Murkrow, as it often relies on non-attacking moves, so Pokemon such as Samurott and Skuntank are good checks. Even with Eviolite, Murkrow is still rather frail, so Pokemon with powerful or super effective moves to use against it, such as Rotom-F, Eelektross, and Piloswine, are good as well. Carracosta, Gigalith, and Golem also fit into this category, as they can tank Murkrow's hits and KO it with their Rock-type STAB moves. Golem in particular can also break Murkrow's Substitutes with Rock Blast. Specially bulky Pokemon, such as Flareon and Lickilicky, are good counters to the Calm Mind set, as Murkrow cannot do a thing to them, even with Calm Mind boosts. However if Flareon and Lickilicky lack Roar and Dragon Tail, respectively, Murkrow has the ability to set up on them without much trouble. In Lickilicky's case, if Murkrow has Substitute it can avoid being phazed by Dragon Tail. It is difficult to inflict status onto Murkrow due to Prankster and Substitute, and setting up against it or attacking it might be challenging because of its plethora of non-attacking moves. However, Murkrow cannot switch into very many attacks, so hitting it on the switch is a great tactic to defeat it.</p>