[Overview]

<p>Ninjask has a successful niche of utilizing Baton Pass; the secret lies in Ninjask's ability, Speed Boost, which raises its Speed every turn, and when this is Baton Passed to a teammate in succession, it can pull off a threatening sweep. Holding the title of the fastest unboosted Pokemon in the tier, Ninjask fits perfectly onto dedicated Baton Pass teams as a Pokemon that can rack up Speed boosts with Protect and Substitute easily. While its frailness and 4x weakness to Stealth Rock prevent Ninjask from staying on the field for very long, it will always be a coveted member of a team in need of speed.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass 
move 2: Substitute 
move 3: Protect 
move 4: Swords Dance / X-Scissor 
item: Leftovers
ability: Speed Boost
nature: Impish
evs: 248 HP / 224 Def / 36 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Ninjask's full potential as a Baton Pass user is displayed in this set; its main goal is to successfully rack up boosts with its ability, Speed Boost, and pass them to a teammate. It is capable of coming out in any part of the match, but it is most common early-game due to its vulnerability to entry hazards. While its poor defenses might give the impression that Ninjask is easy to defeat, it can be very annoying to get rid of if you aren't prepared for it.</p>

<p>Baton Pass is the centerpoint of this set, as it allows Ninjask to pass all of its accumulated Speed boosts to a teammate. Substitute is very useful in avoiding status conditions while collecting Speed boosts and Leftovers recovery. Protect is also a vital move on this set, as it usually can earn Ninjask a free Speed boost from the get-go and scout the opponent's attacks. Swords Dance can be used to get an Attack boost to pass to a teammate, and while it is difficult to achieve due to Ninjask's frailness, it can be very dangerous when paired with Speed Boost. However, X-Scissor grants Ninjask a STAB move and prevents it from being complete Taunt bait or offensively useless.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Speed Boost is mandatory on this set; it, along with Baton Pass, is what makes Ninjask worth using. Leftovers allow Ninjask to create more Substitutes and switch in more often, as well as working well in conjunction with Protect. 248 HP EVs allow Ninjask to switch in on Stealth Rock twice without fainting, 36 Speed EVs allow Ninjask to outspeed Jolly Swellow, and the remaining Defense EVs with an Impish nature gives Ninjask enough physical bulk to tank Fighting-type attacks, such as a Choice Band Sawk's Close Combat. However, the defensive EVs can be traded for Special Defense with a Careful nature to survive weak special attacks from Tangela, Wartortle, and Scald Alomomola. It can also be traded for Attack with an Adamant nature to KO Psychic-types with X-Scissor. The second choice isn't recommended, as Ninjask can easily be KOed by Pokemon it cannot outright OHKO, so investing in its defenses is the superior option. Focus Sash is an option to nearly guaranteed a Speed or Attack boost by surviving a potential OHKO. However, with Stealth Rock being so common, the Focus Sash can easily be broken before Ninjask can make use of it, making Leftovers the best option. U-turn can be used in the fourth moveslot; if Ninjask is hit by Taunt, it would have to resort to either switching out or using X-Scissor, losing momentum in the process. U-turn can be used to ensure momentum is not lost, though it's a very situational option. Roost allows Ninjask to get more opportunities to set up if it's been weakened. However, Ninjask doesn't get chances to fully utilize Roost.</p>

<p>Pokemon that benefit from the Speed boost Ninjask can pass, such as Golurk, Rampardos, Ursaring, Samurott, Exeggutor, and Gorebyss, are good allies. Pokemon that benefit from the occasional Attack boost from Swords Dance are also good teammates to use alongside Ninjask. Rapid Spin support is recommended if you want Ninjask to stay useful in the match. Wartortle is a great choice, as it can tank many attacks for Ninjask thanks to Eviolite. Armaldo is a good choice as well, as it benefits from the Speed boost Ninjask provides. Other Pokemon that can use Baton Pass, such as Mr. Mime, Gorebyss, and Mawile, work well with Ninjask on a dedicated Baton Pass team, as they can pass their boosts to each other. Gorebyss and Mawile can pass defensive boosts to Ninjask, allowing it to last longer. Mr. Mime can pass Barrier to raise its Defense as well.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>An offensive set with a Life Orb or Choice Band is plausible, as it allows Ninjask to make use of its decent base 90 Attack and access to coverage moves. However, it's too frail to reign successful and it's not strong enough to KO opposing Pokemon. Hone Claws can be used in place of Swords Dance, trading power for accuracy. A gimmicky strategy with Final Gambit can be used to defeat weakened Pokemon when Ninjask is at full HP; however, it doesn't have the desired HP to fully utilize it correctly, and its talents are being wasted with such a set. Flash is a gimmicky option as well, but it gives Ninjask many chances to set up if it's used correctly. Ninjask has many great special attacks, such as Bug Buzz, SolarBeam, Silver Wind, and Shadow Ball, but only a mediocre base 50 Special Attack to effectively use them. Other moves such as Sunny Day can be used to support, but there are poor choices, as Ninjask's frailness puts a limit on how long it can stay on the field. Finally, while Mental Herb is not a very useful item in most cases, it can stop Taunt from hindering Ninjask once, although that matters more on Baton Pass teams than anything else. Overall, Ninjask has many options other than its standard set, but the majority of them are lackluster.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Stealth Rock is a huge weakness to Ninjask, so Pokemon that can set it up are very useful in defeating Ninjask. Rock-type Pokemon, such as Golem, Regirock, and Gigalith, are your best bet in OHKOing Ninjask. Rock Blast can work wonders against Ninjask, as it can break through its Substitute and the occasional Focus Sash. Phazing Ninjask out after Stealth Rock is in place is a great way to not only weaken it but prevent or remove any boosts it have attained. Eelektross is a great example of a Pokemon that can phaze Ninjask with ease. Pokemon with priority moves, such as Choice Band Floatzel, can stop Ninjask before it can use Baton Pass or set up Substitute. Taunt is another way to silence Ninjask and break a Baton Pass chain; a Pokemon with Prankster is the best option in this department, as Ninjask will easily outspeed everything else. Murkrow is a good candidate for such a task. Haze and Clear Smog can basically renders Ninjask useless. With correct prediction, Encore is also able to do this to a lesser extent, so Pokemon that wield one of the aforementioned moves, such as Torkoal, Wartortle, and Liepard, work well against it. While stopping Ninjask from using Baton Pass can be difficult if you are unprepared, if you have a offensively strong Pokemon or Stealth Rock, you won't have many issues against it. It's is more important to handle the Baton Pass recipient rather than Ninjask itself; Ninjask isn't too threatening on its own.</p>