[Overview]

<p>Though Pachirisu lacks the Flying-type coverage granted to its fellow squirrel Emolga and a niche, game-changing item such as Pikachu's Light Ball, I promise there is still a reason to use it. That reasoning, however, is buried rather far under the ground, in a place to which Pachirisu can't venture (you know, due to typing and all that). As such, the mystery of Pachirisu's presence in NU is as of yet unsolved. However, those brave souls who have dedicated themselves with a passion to understanding Pachirisu have made leaps and bounds in between the generations, discovering a latent ability—Volt Absorb—deep within the recesses of Pachirisu's dreams. This ability has truly catapulted Pachirisu sky-high, where, if only for a moment, it can soar just as well as Emolga.</p>

<p>It also makes Pachirisu a really nice counter to Plusle or Minun for when you're having a Battle of the Cutest with your friends.</p>

[SET]
name: Generous Sparky
move 1: Bestow / Fling
move 2: Covet
move 3: Volt Switch
move 4: Super Fang / Toxic
item: Lum Berry / Zap Plate
ability: Volt Absorb
nature: Timid
evs: 156 HP / 56 SpA / 44 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As mentioned earlier, Pachirisu works in mysterious ways. While most Pokemon look to make the most of their items by hoarding them for themselves, a few others look to Trick their items to the opponent in order to cripple them. Pachirisu, however, takes this notion in a direction only a squirrel truly could: up a tree. With Bestow, Pachirisu offers up its item—its proverbial nut—to the opponent. Upon witnessing an act of such generosity, many opponents will refuse to strike such an innocent creature, and will be sent, domesticated by a squirrel, back to their trainers. Of course, Bestow can only work if Pachirisu's opponent isn't already bearing an item (probably not for a gift exchange, unfortunately). To guarantee that Pachirisu gives its gift to its foe, Fling can be used to forcibly chuck the item at the enemy. Of course, Pachirisu can't just stop there. If it brought a gift for one Pokemon, it has to have gifts for them all, right? By utilizing its access to Covet, Pachirisu can perform the act of re-gifting even better than you can when you receive those ugly sweaters from your grandparents at Christmas time.</p>

<p>There are times, however, when even Pachirisu's generosity won't be enough to placate the ferocious beast you may be facing. This is most likely because their trainer is the literal incarnation of the Grinch, pre-heart swelling, and never taught them how to enjoy the act of giving. Or maybe they're mad Pachirisu stole their item? It doesn't matter, though, because Pachirisu will become a ferocious beast of its own, with power rivaling that of a local squirrel that may or may not have rabies. In the event that Pachirisu becomes this uncontrollable monstrosity, Volt Switch can be used to return it to you, thereby calming the beast within. Should Pachirisu fail to return, however, it will likely cut the opponent's life span in half thanks to Super Fang. Alternatively, it might even learn to spit venom and poison them with Toxic. This last scenario is probably only possible if you've dipped your Pachirisu in hazardous waste, for which you should feel really, really bad.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because Pachirisu is a squirrel at heart, the most genuine item to use is a Lum Berry. This works perfectly alongside Bestow, as Pachirisu's paws are just large enough to hold a Lum Berry, giving the appearance of a helpless beggar, akin to Oliver Twist. Those who prefer to utilize Fling and the more dangerous variants of Pachirisu may want to make it hold a Zap Plate, which will power up Volt Switch and probably tickle the opponent a little when it gets thrown at them. Volt Absorb, as previously lauded, makes Pachirisu the ultimate Electric-type. The EVs are very specific, in order to maximize Pachirisu's effectiveness. 156 HP EVs gives Pachirisu an HP stat of 300, filling it with the souls of shirtless warriors from the movie of the same name. A Timid nature and maximized Speed EVs allow Pachirisu to move as nimbly as its stumpy feet allow, making it more effective at delivering items than either UPS or FedEx. 56 Special Attack EVs allow Pachirisu to OHKO Swanna with Volt Switch even without the Zap Plate, which is important as ducks are the squirrel's only natural enemy. The remaining 44 EVs go into Special Defense, making it slightly harder to cause mental and emotional damage to Pachirisu's tiny brain.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Though Pachirisu was designed, honestly, to ferry items from one Pokemon to another, there are a few more moves it can utilize to its advantage. For those trainers who fear the wrath of an angry Pachirisu, moves such as Flatter, Fake Tears, Growl, and Sweet Kiss can be placed over Volt Switch and Super Fang, maximizing Pachirisu's endearing qualities. For the few trainers who, instead, embrace the idea of a miniature version of Godzilla running through the park, Pachirisu can control the fauna of its natural habitat using Grass Knot to trip up larger foes. And, while you're at it, since you're destroying the sanctity of such a cute Pokemon, how about you teach your pet squirrel how to Dig, even though it lives in the trees!? A reminder, of course, that even with Dig, Pachirisu will not be able find the reasoning for its use in NU. It does, however, make Earthquake a really good idea for your opponent, if you have any shred of goodliness in your body and want to advise them. For those who are on power trips, Pachirisu can use Hyper Fang over Super Fang. Though I can't guarantee it will actually do more damage, the knowledge that the name of the move is superior in all ways may put your mind at ease.</p>

<p>Pachirisu can also adapt its items, ability, and nature to reflect your needs. Sometimes Pachirisu just can't stand the fact that people consider it inferior to Pikachu. If your Pachirisu is one of the ones affected by this extreme jealously, let it hold a Light Ball to calm it down. When it has recovered its sense enough to continue battling, it can even Fling the Light Ball to paralyze enemies! If the same thing happens but with its cousin Emolga, feel free to give Pachirisu an Air Balloon. In order to get your Pachirisu more in-tune with its natural instincts, you are free to let it use the Run Away ability and a Bashful nature, thereby perfectly mimicking real squirrels. You may be able to use this to your advantage, tricking the opponent into believing you don't have a deadly monster on the field, and are in fact just some nut with a squirrel for a pet.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Honestly, Pachirisu is just too speedy to stop. It outpaces quite a lot of the NU metagame, and upon doing so, completely incapacitates almost every enemy with its generosity. After all, who doesn't like playing with new toys? Do you think your Pokemon don't have a fun side to them? You seriously are the type of monster who wouldn't want to use Pachirisu. I can't stand people like you. However, you can put a stop to Pachirisu's item shuffling fun by using Pokemon faster than it, Pokemon who have any sort of attack and aren't as impressed by gifts as you'd hoped, or any Pokemon that is too tall for Pachirisu to steal from. All three of these areas of weakness in Pachirisu's stronghold make Charizard the premier counter for it, though Pokemon such as Zangoose, Fraxure, and Torterra work just as well. But not Luvdisc. Or Pelipper. Don't even try, you heartless fiends.</p>