[Overview]

<p>Much like Pikachu, there are very few people who can successfully use Pidgeot save Ash Ketchum. Aside from that awesome hairdo, there are very few advantages Pidgeot has over other Normal / Flying types that will always compete for Pidgeot's spot on your team such as Swellow, Braviary, and even Dodrio. While Pidgeot does have slightly greater bulk than its colleagues besides Braviary, its inferior offensive stats, lower Speed, and awful abilities make Pidgeot incredibly outclassed at almost anything it tries to achieve. Pidgeot's movepool is not a saving grace for the original bird either, as it has practically the same movepool as Swellow and Braviary.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Brave Bird
move 2: Return
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Pursuit / Quick Attack
item: Choice Band
ability: Tangled Feet
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>By utilizing a Choice Band, Pidgeot attempts to carve a niche for itself, as any Choice Scarf set is outclassed by Braviary due to Braviary's significantly higher Attack stat and access to Superpower, which can at least dent common Rock-type switch-ins, and any non-Choice sets are outclassed by Guts Swellow. Brave Bird is Pidgeot's bread-and-butter STAB attack, able to punch large holes in anything that doesn't resist it. Return is a weaker, more standard STAB attack, but using it preserves Pidgeot's precious HP. Because preserving Pidgeot's health is so important, Return is the preferred attacking move until it can clean up with Brave Bird. U-turn allows Pidgeot to easily escape from its counters that try to switch in while also nailing Psychic-, Grass-, and Dark-types such as Torterra. Pursuit is an interesting option on a Choice Band set given its low Base Power, but it can demolish a weakened foe attempting to escape from Pidgeot's Return or Brave Bird. Quick Attack is a useful priority move and can easily finish off frailer opponents. Quick Attack is also Pidgeot's only way of stopping Skuntank as Quick Attack will make Sucker Punch, which would normally KO Pidgeot, useless.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Pidgeot to hit a respectable 389 Attack with a Jolly nature, factoring in the Choice Band boost. While this is unfortunately not enough to bust through teams without breaking a sweat, it is still enough to leave large dents in the opponent's team. The given EV spread also gives Pidgeot an HP stat that is not divisible by 4, meaning it can switch into Stealth Rock four times instead of three. An alternate EV spread can be made by placing 48 Speed EVs into HP, which retains the numeric property, gives Pidgeot a bit more bulk, and allows Pidgeot to still outspeed non-Choice Scarf base 85 Speed Pokemon such as Sawk.</p>

<p>In regards to teammates, Pidgeot needs practically the same support Swellow does, albeit to a larger extent. As Pidgeot will be switching out often due to the nature of Choice items, as well as continuous recoil damage from Brave Bird, spinners such as Armaldo and Wartortle are mandatory for Pidgeot to succeed. Entry hazards support from Pokemon such as Cacturne is also highly recommended, as it can turn crucial 2HKOs into OHKOs, making Pidgeot a deadlier threat. Special sweepers such as Samurott or Gorebyss also make excellent teammates, as they can tear down many of the walls that Pidgeot has trouble dealing with, such as Regirock and Golem. Cacturne is useful not only for Spikes support, but also for its ability to easily scare away Alomomola and the Rock-types that counter Pidgeot with its STAB Seed Bomb. Bulk Up users such as Gurdurr and Throh can also come in on the main Pidgeot counters and proceed to set up on them while shrugging off anything that said counters can do to them.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Since Pidgeot is so outclassed, it does not have many other options it can effectively use. Pidgeot has access to FeatherDance, which can help the team deal with physical sweepers such as Sawk or Swellow, but Murkrow is a much better user due to priority from Prankster. A Choice Specs set is plausible, as Pidgeot does receive Hurricane and Heat Wave, but it is rather gimmicky, especially with Pidgeot's low Special Attack stat. If you do decide to use a non-Choice special variant of Pidgeot, it can supply its own rain for Hurricane through Rain Dance, but Swanna is a better Hurricane user to begin with due to higher Special Attack, Speed, and Water STAB to further abuse rain with. Tailwind is another gimmicky support option Pidgeot can utilize to boost the team's Speed, but, once again, Murkrow is a better Tailwind user due to Prankster.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Unfortunately for Pidgeot, even with a Choice Band attached, its power is not enormous, and it struggles to get past a large majority of the physical walls in NU. Regirock, Golem, Carracosta, and Bastiodon can all hammer and destroy Pidgeot with their STAB Rock-type moves while taking little damage from Pidgeot's attacks. Basically, any decent Rock- or Steel-type that isn't weak to Brave Bird can counter Pidgeot. Pidgeot has to fear status inducers as well, as a paralyzed Pidgeot instantly becomes useless, and a burned Pidgeot is even worse. Pidgeot's Speed may be high, but it is nowhere near the highest in NU, and faster Pokemon, namely Swellow and Choice Scarf users such as Rotom-S can easily revenge kill Pidgeot due to its average defenses.</p>