[Overview]

<p>Piloswine is one of the best Stealth Rock users in NU thanks to its bulk and power and also makes a very effective lead as a result. While base 100 HP and base 80 Defense are respectable in NU, Eviolite improves Piloswine's physical bulk even further. Piloswine's Thick Fat ability gives it an added advantage against Ice- and Fire-type attacks, the former now being resisted and latter neutralized in tandem with Piloswine's unique Ice / Ground typing. With its typing, Piloswine is a great switch-in to Electric-types such as Rotom-F, thus breaking Volt Switch momentum for the opponent. Additionally, Piloswine's typing and ability in particular help it take on Choice Scarf and Substitute + Nasty Plot variants of Jynx, making it the only Ground-type in NU to accomplish this feat. While many dedicated leads in NU do not stick around for the ends of battles, Piloswine can last long in a game because of its bulk and proves to be valuable for many teams late-game because of its STAB Ice Shard, capable of picking off weakened sweepers such as Braviary and Dragon Dance Altaria.</p>

[SET]
name: Stealth Rock
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Icicle Spear
move 4: Ice Shard
item: Eviolite
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Adamant
evs: 240 HP / 252 Atk / 16 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Piloswine makes a great Stealth Rock lead because it ensures that Pokemon such as Scolipede can only get one layer of Spikes up and beats common Stealth Rock leads such as Golem, Gigalith, and Probopass with its bulk and STAB Earthquake. Piloswine is even bulky enough to survive Choice Scarf Sawk and Primeape's Close Combats, and KO them with a combination of Earthquake and Ice Shard. Icicle Spear is used primarily to break Substitutes from Pokemon such as Misdreavus, Mandibuzz, and Murkrow, and Ice Shard is used to pick off weakened threats that attempt to capitalize on Piloswine's lackluster Speed. Piloswine's bulk enables it to stay in the game for a longer period of time and also makes it a great switch-in to Electric-type Pokemon seen in Zebstrika and Rotom-F, making it a great way to stop Volt Switch momentum.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread for this set is fairly straightforward, capitalizing on Piloswine's two main selling points: bulk and power. The 16 Speed EVs allow Piloswine to outspeed max Speed Torkoal and attack with Earthquake before it is able to do any damage. Icicle Crash can be considered over Icicle Spear as it is more powerful than Icicle Spear in most instances, but Icicle Spear is generally better because of its ability to break Substitutes and Earthquake is Piloswine's main form of offense regardless. Toxic can also be used over Icicle Spear if one wishes to poison common switch-ins, such as Alomomola and Wartortle. Lastly, an additional EV spread of 240 HP / 156 Atk / 96 Def / 16 Spe with an Impish nature can be used for more bulk. This spread in particular can be used in tandem with Roar due to Piloswine's heightened defensive presence.</p>

<p>Spikes support from Scolipede and Roselia is beneficial for Piloswine in order to rack up additional entry hazard damage alongside Stealth Rock. Pokemon that switch in on Water-type moves such as Samurott, Ludicolo, and Serperior also make great partners as well; Jynx in particular takes great advantage of Stealth Rock and is also immune to Water-type attacks. Pokemon that can switch into Fighting-type attacks also work well; for example, Misdreavus can come in on a Choice-locked Close Combat from Sawk or Primeape and force a switch, thus shifting momentum in your favor. Carracosta boasts great offensive synergy alongside Piloswine because it is able to set up on Normal-type attackers that Piloswine cannot switch into safely such as Swellow and Zangoose, and Piloswine can aid Carracosta by taking down certain Choice Scarfed Pokemon such as Rotom-A and Jynx.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Piloswine's role in NU is rather limited due to its movepool. Endeavor + Ice Shard with Focus Sash is an alternative option to be used as a lead, but it is inferior because it sacrifices Piloswine's bulk and longevity. A Curse set with Avalanche can be considered, but this is usually quite unsuccessful because Piloswine has subpar Special Defense which can easily be taken advantage of. Piloswine can try a Choice Band or Life Orb set for more offensive capability, but this is also inferior to the tank set because it is not guaranteed Stealth Rock and wastes Piloswine's bulk as well. Stone Edge and Superpower can be options to consider on such sets; Stone Edge can beat Pokemon such as Articuno, while Superpower helps against bulker Normal-types such as Audino, Miltank, and Lickilicky. Piloswine also has access to Light Screen and Reflect, but it would need to sacrifice Eviolite to run screens for a prolonged period with Light Clay, which is not it otherwise.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Water-types such as Alomomola and Wartortle are great responses to Piloswine. Alomomola can wall any attack Piloswine uses, and use Scald and Toxic to whittle away its health. Wartortle can similarly use Scald and Toxic to beat Piloswine in addition to being able to spin Stealth Rock away, although it lacks recovery much like Piloswine. Will-O-Wisp Misdreavus can come in on Earthquake or Stealth Rock and proceed to burn Piloswine, thus hindering its ability to deal significant damage. Tangela can also come in on Earthquake and Stealth Rock and is also bulky enough to withstand hits from an Ice-type attack from Piloswine's Ice-type attacks and then retaliate with Giga Drain. Tangela also commonly run Knock Off, which would hurt Piloswine's bulk by removing Eviolite.</p>

<p>There are also Pokemon that are strong enough to simply OHKO Piloswine right off the bat and act as checks against it. Choice Banded Fighting-types such as Sawk can come in and kill with Close Combat, and Choice Specs Charizard can OHKO it with Fire Blast. Samurott is also a common attacker that can OHKO Piloswine by running Hydro Pump with Life Orb and can also set up Swords Dance and proceed to use Waterfall. Pokemon such as Simipour, Serperior, Ludicolo, and Seismitoad can also deal significant damage to Piloswine, although they are not always able to land an OHKO on Piloswine and only act as solid responses if Piloswine is weakened enough.</p>