[Overview]

<p>With access to all three forms of entry hazards, the coveted Rapid Spin, and the handy ability Sturdy, Pineco has carved itself a great niche as a suicide entry hazard lead in NU. The ability to quickly set up multiple layers of entry hazards and get emergency early-game spins off is an absolute blessing to hyper offensive teams in NU, and Pineco does not disappoint in this role. Unfortunately, Pineco is limited to doing just that, as there are literally no other reasons to use it. It also faces extreme competition from other suicide leads such as Golem and Scolipede, both of which are faster and bring offensive presence to the field. Despite this, Pineco has a very unique niche as an entry hazard setter, and it pulls it off well.</p>

[SET]
name: Custap Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Spikes / Toxic Spikes
move 3: Rapid Spin
move 4: Endure / Bug Bite
item: Custap Berry
ability: Sturdy
nature: Hasty
evs: 252 Atk / 252 Spe
ivs: 0 HP / 0 Def / 0 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Pineco is played as a lead; it aims to set up as many entry hazards as possible in the first few turns of the match, and does not last for long. Its access to multiple forms of entry hazards sets it apart from the likes of Scolipede, and between its ability Sturdy and the Custap Berry, Pineco is near guaranteed to get up at least a few layers of entry hazards or a potential Rapid Spin off, exhibiting its ability to be immediately useful to its team.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is an obvious staple on this set as Pineco is near guaranteed to set it up, making for an excellent wielder of the move. The choice between Spikes and Toxic Spikes can often be a difficult one; however, with the former often being easier to maintain thanks to the abundance of grounded Poison-types in NU, Spikes tends to have more utility. Toxic Spikes can be invaluable against teams that lack a grounded Poison-type, though. Rapid Spin occupies the third slot, and is what separates it from Dwebble&mdash;the ability to get a single emergency spin off before dying often makes a world of a difference over the course of a match. Finally, Endure is the preferred move in the last slot, as it ensures Pineco gets into Custap range safely and helps it to bypass Mold Breakers such as Sawk and multi-hit move users such as Golem. Bug Bite is another viable option to be considered; while it is incredibly situational and rarely sees use, it does have some utility, as it can OHKO Jynx and 2HKO Liepard. However, it sees next to no use otherwise, and because of that, Endure is often the more practical and useful choice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With maximum Speed investment and a Speed-boosting nature, Pineco is able to outspeed Modest Shell Smash Torkoal as well as standard Piloswine and Regirock. Zero investment in bulk and a Defense-lowering nature helps Pineco get into Custap range easier; for example, Scolipede's Megahorn and Golurk's Shadow Punch are now guaranteed to bring it down to 1 HP, where Pineco can respond appropriately with its Custap Berry activated. An alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe with a Jolly nature can potentially allow Pineco to survive a few hits and set up more entry hazards, but it sadly does not avoid any relevant 2HKOs with the above spread and makes it more reliant on Endure to reach Custap range. Toxic is a notable move that can be used in the last slot, allowing Pineco to potentially cripple Pokemon it couldn't touch before (which is basically everything). Endure and Bug Bite generally have more utility, though. Finally, Explosion is viable as well&mdash;while its damage output isn't outstanding due to Pineco's poor Attack stat, it does see use in ensuring that a teammate gets a free switch-in should Pineco be fully set up. Pineco does not accomplish this often, though, and thus Explosion is not preferred.</p>

<p>Ghost-types are near mandatory for Pineco's success, as Pineco fares poorly against Rapid Spinners in general and leaves its entry hazards vulnerable to being spun away, Ghost-types help this case by spinblocking, making Golurk, Misdreavus, Haunter, and Drifblim outstanding partners. Additionally, offensive teams love Pineco's ability to provide quick entry hazards and get potential emergency spins off; this makes Pokemon such as Jynx, Carracosta, and Charizard excellent partners as well. For the most part, though, Pineco is fairly self-supporting; required teammates are minimal outside of Ghost-types, and it can work on most offensive teams without many synergy issues.</p>

[SET]
name: Suicide Lead (Level 1)
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Pain Split
move 3: Spikes
move 4: Toxic Spikes
item: Berry Juice
ability: Sturdy
nature: Timid
evs: 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While this set is a bit less reliable than the first set in terms of ensuring multiple layers of entry hazards, it is capable of doing some major damage to the opposing lead if played correctly. As the name suggests, it needs to be used at level 1, so one might question how this is possible. The trick, however, lies in Pineco's hidden weapon, Pain Split, which effectively acts as a pseudo-Super Fang and simultaneously restores Pineco back to full health. The goal of the set is simple: set up as many entry hazards as possible until Pineco's Berry Juice is activated, restoring it back to full health. Follow that up by continuously spamming Pain Split until the opposing Pokemon is weakened enough so that it can be picked off by something else on your team. Finally, set up one final layer of entry hazards before you are KOed, either a layer of Spikes or Toxic Spikes, depending on the opposing team. This set is extremely efficient at defeating Life Orb users, as it is capable of bringing them down low enough where they will die to their own Life Orb recoil. Obviously, this set has many flaws&mdash;Substitute, Taunt, multi-hit move users, and Mold Breakers, to name a few&mdash;but it should be noted that this set can and will cripple an opposing Pokemon if given the chance.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Rapid Spin has some potential in the last slot, allowing Pineco to remove any potential entry hazards from its side of the field. It is also notable for allowing Pineco to at least do something should it ever be Taunted; however, it is far less reliable at spinning than the first set and often never finds the time to use it. Toxic is another considerable choice, allowing Pineco to whittle down an opposing lead via poison. However, Pineco would rather use free turns to set up entry hazards than use Toxic. Maximum Speed investment allows for a Speed tie with the occasional opposing level 1 Pineco; while this does not often come into play, it still can prove to be relevant in some one-on-one scenarios. Partners include the obvious Ghost-types, as spinblocking is absolutely invaluable when it comes to maintaining Pineco's entry hazards. Offensive sweepers always benefit from Pineco's early-game entry hazard provision as well, and make for excellent partners. As stated before, this set is far less reliable at ensuring hazards than the first set; however, if you want a way to prevent Pineco from becoming setup bait, this set is for you.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Don't even think about it. Pineco should never be used for ANYTHING aside from quick entry hazards and emergency Rapid Spins, and as a result has no better options it can use.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The quirky thing about Pineco is that you often aren't looking for a counter for Pineco itself&mdash;you're looking for a counter for the entry hazards it sets up. Taunt works extremely well at accomplishing this, preventing Pineco from doing anything. As a result, Pokemon such as Skuntank, Misdreavus, Serperior, and Samurott are effective counters. Magic Bounce and Magic Coat can also get the job done; while they do require slightly more prediction than Taunt, they can effectively use Pineco's own entry hazards against it. Breaking its Sturdy&mdash;whether it be from status, multi-hit moves such as Rock Blast, Mold Breaker, or Fake Out&mdash;also works well to prevent multiple layers of entry hazards, although many of these methods struggle to prevent at least one layer against Endure variants. Substitute users can also set up all over Pineco, but they fail to prevent Pineco from setting up entry hazards. The Custap lead set is even easier set up on, as Substitute isn't even required. Finally, the Rapid Spinners of the tier do very well against Pineco, as Armaldo, Torkoal, and Wartortle are all capable of defeating it one-on-one and can easily rid the field of its entry hazards.</p>