[Overview]

<p>Probopass is one of the better defensive pivots in the tier due to its combination of great bulk and numerous resistances. Between its access to Stealth Rock and a slow Volt Switch, it finds many opportunities to support its teammates. It also has two useful abilities in Sturdy and Magnet Pull, both of which Probopass can use effectively. Sadly, while Probopass's typing is one of its greatest assets, it's also its greatest downfall; a 4x weakness to Fighting- and Ground-type attacks compounded by a 2x weakness to Water-type moves is a heavy burden to bear. Probopass's longevity is further hindered by its lack of reliable recovery, and due to its low offensive presence, it can often be used as setup bait.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Power Gem
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Volt Switch
item: Leftovers
ability: Sturdy
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 56 SpA / 200 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of all of Probopass's useful qualities, namely its excellent bulk, Rock / Steel typing, access to Stealth Rock, and ability to gain switch advantage with Volt Switch. Thanks to Sturdy, Probopass is almost guaranteed to set up Stealth Rock unless it is matched up against Mold Breaker users such as Sawk, Pinsir, or Fraxure. Power Gem is the chosen STAB move because of the utility it provides, allowing Probopass to deal with the likes of Jynx, Charizard, and Scolipede, none of which can do much back without Focus Blast or Earthquake. Additionally, the combination of Power Gem and Toxic allows Probopass to effectively counter SubBU Braviary, a Pokemon that would otherwise set up all over it. Toxic also allows Probopass to counter Musharna, stalling out Heal Bell's PP and avoiding being poisoned by Synchronize thanks to its Steel typing. Finally, a slow Volt Switch ensures that its teammates get in safely, making it great support for frail Pokemon such as Jynx and Zangoose.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>56 EVs are put into Special Attack to allow Probopass to OHKO and 2HKO Charizard and Jynx, respectively, with Power Gem. The rest of the EVs emphasize Special Defense, allowing Probopass to make better use out of its various specially oriented resistances. A physically defensive spread can be used, but Probopass's weaknesses to Fighting- and Ground-type attacks make this undesirable. Flash Cannon is stronger than Power Gem and lets Probopass hit Rock-types harder, but the damage output is still rather average coming off of Probopass's poor uninvested Special Attack stat. Protect is another option to be considered, allowing Probopass to Toxic stall more efficiently. However, using Protect means forgoing a more useful move in its place. Finally, Thunder Wave can be used over Toxic, helping against more offensive teams. However, Probopass needs Toxic to beat Musharna and Braviary, which could otherwise set up to +6 with Calm Mind and Bulk Up, respectively, and proceed to sweep the rest of your team.</p>

<p>Probopass absolutely requires partners to cover its glaring weaknesses to Fighting-, Ground-, and Water-type attacks. On that note, Musharna is an outstanding partner, resisting Fighting-type attacks and forming an excellent defensive core with Probopass. Vileplume and Roselia can handle most Water-types with relative ease, with the former also helping to deal with Fighting- and Ground-types and the latter setting up Spikes. Finally, Swellow is a good offensive partner, as it can take advantage of Probopass's slow Volt Switch to activate its Toxic Orb and forms a solid VoltTurn core with it. Probopass works best on teams that can take advantage of its great utility and compensate for its weaknesses; because of this, balance and bulkier offensive teams are where it fits in best.</p>

[SET]
name: Trapper
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Power Gem / Flash Cannon
move 3: Earth Power
move 4: Volt Switch
item: Air Balloon / Leftovers
ability: Magnet Pull
nature: Modest
evs: 160 HP / 252 SpA / 96 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Courtesy of its useful Magnet Pull ability, Probopass is capable of running an offensive pivot set very well. This set specializes in trapping and removing Steel-types from the field&mdash;Pokemon such as Metang, opposing Probopass, and Bastiodon are renowned for their great bulk and numerous resistances, and Probopass can effectively clear the path of all of them. Stealth Rock is there as always for support, as Probopass finds many opportunities to set it up; however, do note that due to the lack of Sturdy and investment in bulk, this set is not as reliable at setting up Stealth Rock in contrast to more defensive variants. Power Gem is the preferred STAB, hitting Flying-types and Scolipede harder than any other move in Probopass's arsenal. Flash Cannon can be used instead, being Probopass's strongest STAB and best way to hit Rock-types; however, aside from this, it does not add much to Probopass's coverage. Earth Power is mainly used for damaging the Steel-types that Probopass traps while also providing solid coverage alongside Probopass's STAB. Finally, Volt Switch is there to gain momentum, using Probopass's low Speed to its advantage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Probopass to outspeed Modest Torkoal and KO it with Power Gem. It also maximizes Probopass's power, allowing it to defeat trapped Steel-types easier. Finally, the remaining EVs are put into bulk to increase its longevity. There aren't many reasons to deviate from this spread, as more Speed is unnecessary and more bulk doesn't avoid any relevant 2HKOs. Air Balloon is the preferred item choice, letting Probopass avoid any random Earthquakes from Metang and Earth Powers from opposing Probopass. Leftovers is another option, providing passive recovery, but do note it makes Probopass more vulnerable to Ground-type moves. Hidden Power Grass or Ice could be used, hitting Ground-types harder than any other move. However, Probopass does not have the room for either, and it is too slow to make use of them anyway.</p>

<p>Any Pokemon that hates Steel-types loves Probopass as a partner; Jynx, for example, can freely unleash her STABs without fear of being walled. Swellow is another Pokemon that despises opposing Steel-types and can even form a VoltTurn core with Probopass. Finally, Calm Mind Musharna loves having Steel-types removed, and in return it can easily deal with the Fighting-types that trouble Probopass. This set finds its home on more offensive teams as a pivot and Steel trapper; Probopass has the most utility on these team archetypes for obvious reasons, and it gets its job done well.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Taunt gets a mention, allowing Probopass to prevent setup and Toxic stall more effectively. However, for the most part, Probopass is far too slow to make use of it. Magic Coat also prevents setup similarly to Taunt, but it requires a bit of prediction to work. Pain Split is Probopass's only form of recovery outside of the undesirable Rest, but Probopass doesn't have the room for it on any set. Magnet Rise is a more gimmicky option that can remove Probopass's Ground-type weakness, but it is too slow to pull this off. Probopass can utilize Gravity alongside its slow Volt Switch to support its teammates, but it doesn't benefit from Gravity itself and Gravity is generally a gimmicky strategy. Endure is a notable move, as when combined with a Custap Berry it allows Probopass to get around Mold Breaker Sawk and set up Stealth Rock. Unfortunately, Probopass's severe four-moveslot syndrome prevents it from making use of Endure. Thunderbolt can be used, but Volt Switch has more utility. Probopass can set up Sunny Day, but there are better Pokemon for this role. Finally, RestTalk is not recommended as a method of healing, being unreliable and forgoing much utility.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Probopass is fairly easy to beat if you target its three glaring weaknesses; any Pokemon with a strong Fighting-, Ground-, or Water-type move can easily smash it into pieces. Sawk gets a special mention in this regard, bypassing Sturdy thanks to Mold Breaker and OHKOing Probopass with Close Combat. Probopass lacks decent offensive presence; because of this, setup sweepers such as Serperior and Samurott can easily take advantage of it. Misdreavus also gets a mention, being able to Taunt Probopass and wear it down via Will-O-Wisp. In general, residual damage does well at wearing down Probopass and limiting its walling capabilities. Finally, if worst comes to worst, simply pounding away at Probopass with strong attacks will eventually take it down as it lacks reliable recovery.</p>