[Overview]

<p>Despite its fat and clumsy appearance, Purugly is a fast Pokemon that is capable of scouting and revenge killing. U-turn and higher Speed sets it apart from Kangaskhan, while it is speedier and slightly bulkier than Liepard. Thick Fat also helps it to switch into certain moves such as Ice Beam from Jynx. However, its poor movepool leaves it walled by Rock- and Steel-types, and while it is able to distinguish itself from its competition, most of the time, they aren't enough to justify its use over Kangaskhan, which has Scrappy, and Liepard, which has Prankster Encore and Pursuit. They are also both more powerful than Purugly and have better neutral coverage.</p>

[SET]
name: Pivot
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Return
move 3: Fake Out
move 4: Sucker Punch
item: Silk Scarf / Life Orb
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Purugly's blazing Speed allows it to check several fast but frail attackers reliably, and fare very well against offensive teams. U-turn allows Purugly to scout for switch-ins or escape a potential counter and switch into a teammate, keeping its team's momentum. Return is a reliable STAB move that works well with Purugly's high Speed. Fake Out and Sucker Punch form an amazing combination that takes down frail opponents which are faster than Purugly with ease. It should be noted that unlike Kangaskhan, Purugly is less reliant on Sucker Punch due to its high Speed which allows it to outspeed a majority of the unboosted metagame.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature is required for Purugly to outspeed Liepard and Kadabra, as well as Speed tie with Scolipede. Silk Scarf is the preferred item, as it boosts the STAB moves that Purugly is most likely to spam without detracting from its bulk, although a Life Orb could be used instead for the additional power. Taunt is a good option that defeats stall as well as offensive teams at the same time, but is hard to fit into the moveset. Super Fang is a possibility to surprise bulky walls that lack recovery, such as Regirock and Metang, but cuts into Purugly's revenge killing abilities. Toxic can be used to surprise Tangela and Alomomola, but is hard to fit onto the set.</p>

<p>Due to Purugly's ability to use U-turn, good teammates are ones who can take advantage of Purugly luring in its counters before U-turning out to these teammates. Zebstrika and Electabuzz are great teammates for their ability to threaten Alomomola and Tangela, two would-be counters to Purugly, with Thunderbolt for the former and Overheat or Hidden Power Ice for the latter. Zebstrika and Electabuzz are also able to switch into Tangela's Sleep Powder without fear, thanks to Sap Sipper and Vital Spirit respectively. At the same time, these teammates also form a strong VoltTurn core with Purugly. Setup sweepers appreciate free switches into opponents they threaten out, for a safe setup. Gorebyss is a decent teammate, being able to take advantage of Purugly's U-turns out of the Rock-types it lures in, and it can proceed to set up Shell Smash or OHKO them. Similarly, Arbok and Misdreavus can set up on Sawk or Primeape Choice-locked into Close Combat after Purugly U-turns out of them. Exeggutor is also a good check to all of the above, while either setting up a Substitute or hitting the next switch-in hard. Skuntank is also a decent teammate, switching in on Ghost-types after Purugly uses U-turn, and eliminating them with Pursuit. Magnet Pull Probopass can remove troublesome Steel-types, allowing Purugly to use Return more freely. At the same time, it forms a nice VoltTurn core with Purugly. Purugly also appreciates the presence of entry hazards, particularly Spikes and Stealth Rock, on the opponent's side of the field, due to Purugly's nature of forcing switches with Fake Out and U-turn. Scolipede and Garbodor are good candidates for Spikes setters. At the same time, they are also able to take hits from Fighting-types that threaten Purugly.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Choice Band set can be used, but this is done better by more powerful or bulkier Pokemon such as Kangaskhan and Lickilicky. Purugly can attempt to boost with Hone Claws or Work Up, but it is better off running the pivot set listed due to its poor coverage and average bulk; Purugly's strength, after all, lies in its scouting abilities. Knock Off is an option to cripple Misdreavus and Tangela switching into Purugly, but giving up a moveslot for this is hardly worth it. Purugly can set up weather with Rain Dance or Sunny Day, but Volbeat and Liepard are better for this role due to Prankster. Shadow Claw can be used to hit Ghost-types, but Purugly can already hit them with a super effective Sucker Punch if they attack, or simply switch to a counter with U-turn. Quick Attack is a more reliable priority option, but is weaker than Sucker Punch and less likely to revenge kill opponents. Hypnosis is usable, but it is a move with shaky accuracy that takes up a moveslot that could be better used to aid in Purugly's revenge killing.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It isn't very easy to counter Purugly in the strictest sense due to the fact it can simply U-turn out of its counters. In any case, Pokemon with Rocky Helmet, such as Garbodor and Regirock, inflict residual damage onto Purugly that carelessly use Fake Out or U-turn. Alomomola and Tangela are capable of walling Purugly, but must be wary if it uses U-turn on the switch or uses an unexpected move such as Toxic. Ghost-types, such as Misdreavus and Golurk, are immune to Purugly's STAB moves and are able to threaten it with a burn from Will-O-Wisp or a powerful STAB Earthquake, respectively. Gurdurr is a great counter to Purugly, taking little damage from anything Purugly uses while threatening back with Mach Punch or Drain Punch to heal back all its HP. Slower Pokemon with switching moves can turn Purugly's attempt to gain momentum against it. For example, Musharna or Probopass can use Baton Pass or Volt Switch respectively after Purugly U-turns out, hence gaining the switch advantage while taking little damage in the process. Pokemon with a Choice Scarf can outspeed and defeat Purugly, but they must be careful of switching in directly; Fake Out + Sucker Punch can easily dent most fragile Choice Scarf users as well. Finally, strong priority users, including Kangaskhan and Samurott, can get around a weakened Purugly by picking it off before it can attack.</p>