[Overview]

<p>Ladies and gentlemen, boys and girls, children of all ages: if it isn't the legendary, the all-powerful, the tragically designed behemoth known as Regigigas! With its Uber-worthy stat spread including a gargantuan base Attack stat catching the naked eye, one must not overlook the serious flaws this giant boasts. Equipped with one of the most shallow movepools in the game and a repulsive ability in Slow Start, which halves both Regigigas's Attack and Speed for five whole turns, Regigigas finds itself seeking refuge within the NU territory.</p>

<p>Despite these two crippling attributes, Regigigas should not be quickly dismissed, as it's supplied with the necessary tools to make it competitively bearable and a threat that any team must prepare for. Alongside its excellent overall bulk and sturdy Substitutes, Regigigas is one of the best users of the notorious parafusion strategy, immensely helping it stall out the Slow Start effect whilst taking minimal damage in the process. However, Regigigas still requires heavy team support to ensure success in executing its tactic, and even then, its sheer reliance on parafusion makes it somewhat unreliable as a sweeper.</p>

[SET]
name: One-Hit Wonder
move 1: Thunder Wave
move 2: Confuse Ray
move 3: Substitute
move 4: Return
item: Leftovers
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is by far Regigigas's best and most threatening set available. The combination of Thunder Wave, Confuse Ray, and Substitute allows Regigigas to quite easily rid itself of its Slow Start ability and often be guarded behind a Substitute in the end. This is because the nefarious parafusion combo results in only a measly 37.5% chance for the enemy to successfully attack, meaning in the majority of cases, Regigigas will often be setting up bulky Substitutes unscathed. Furthermore, Regigigas's superb overall bulk provides a plethora of opportunities for Regigigas to switch in and begin wreaking havoc. The final moveslot is reserved for Regigigas's most powerful and reliable STAB attack in Return, which when backed up by an overwhelmingly high base Attack stat, ends OHKOing or 2HKOing every NU Pokemon, barring heavily defensive threats, such as Alomomola, Tangela, and Bastiodon, and Ghost-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If being walled by defensive Steel- and Rock-types severely concerns you, Drain Punch is available to remedy that issue; however, it's strongly discouraged as forgoing Confuse Ray or Thunder Wave will severely hinder Regigigas's ability to compensate for Slow Start. The EV spread focuses solely on maximizing Regigigas's overall bulk and gargantuan power. Leftovers paired with the parafusion strategy is also a deadly combination, often allowing Regigigas to restore the health lost from its Substitutes and may even replenish the damage it takes from being hit outside of its bulwark.</p>

<p>It's clearly evident that any Ghost-type will pose an immediate threat to Regigigas, especially Golurk, as it also blocks Thunder Wave, and Substitute or Taunt variants of Misdreavus and Drifblim, as both can quickly halt the entire parafusion combo. For this reason, it is necessary to carry partners to reliably dispose of any Ghost-type in the tier. Skuntank and Zangoose are both formidable Pursuit trappers, the former also packing STAB Sucker Punch and Crunch and the latter boasting an immunity to Will-O-Wisp thanks to the use of Toxic Orb, a Shadow Ball immunity, and Night Slash for a stronger Dark-type. As mentioned previously, defensive Steel- and Rock-types, particularly Bastiodon and Probopass, will be a nuisance to deal with. Even though most are susceptible to Thunder Wave and Confuse Ray, their sheer bulk prevents them from taking any serious damage from Return, giving them an opportunity to hit back, PP stall, or phaze Regigigas out with the likes of Roar. For this reason, using Regirock is a great option as it handily deals with these Pokemon via Drain Punch or Earthquake and can even spread paralysis of its own with Thunder Wave, something Regigigas greatly appreciates. Gurdurr is a more offensive answer to these threats, obliterating them with its STAB attacks. It also enjoys the paralysis support provided by Regigigas due to its poor Speed.</p>

<p>It must be acknowledged that Toxic Spikes is the number one method to passively shut Regigigas down without question. The escalating poison damage will end up being too much for Regigigas to handle before Slow Start even has a chance to wear off. It is absolutely critical to utilize Poison-types to absorb them or surefire Rapid Spin users to get rid of them. Again, Skuntank is a great choice with its part Poison typing, and Foresight Wartortle can be used to nearly guarantee a successful Rapid Spin. It is also recommended to use additional paralysis spreaders to aid and quicken Regigigas's ability to set up while taking the least possible damage in the process. Musharna is a fantastic candidate here, as it resists the Fighting-type attacks that Regigigas might come across, has access to the important Heal Bell should Regigigas be crippled with status prematurely, and has the longevity to continually spread paralysis with Thunder Wave. It's also a good idea to use Stun Spore support from the likes of Tangela and Exeggutor, the former deserving a special mention for its ability to handily counter any variant of Golurk. This allows for Ground-types and Pokemon that absorb Electric-type moves, such as Lightningrod Zebstrika, to be crippled with paralysis, further aiding Regigigas's sweep.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Looking at Regigigas's lackluster movepool, there really isn't much going for it outside of the one-hit wonder set. A Rock Polish set is interesting, but it just isn't effective at fulfilling a late-game sweeping role due to Slow Start and poor coverage options; there are simply better Pokemon to choose from. A defensive set is a viable approach, using moves such as Toxic, Thunder Wave, Icy Wind, and Knock Off, but the lack of reliable recovery and crippling ability make it outclassed as a specially defensive Normal-type by Miltank, Audino, and Lickilicky. Regigigas also has access to neat special attacks, such as Thunderbolt and Earth Power, but passing up that enormous base Attack for a Special Attack stat that's half as much is nowhere near worth it. Finally, Superpower, Focus Punch, and the elemental punches are available for use, but Regigigas is already strapped for moveslots and can't put them to good effect. Of the elemental punches, Fire Punch is nice for Metang and Ice Punch for Golurk, but again, it's not worth passing up Thunder Wave or Confuse Ray and thus having teammates to handle them is the far better choice.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ghost-types are one of the best counters to Regigigas. Golurk in particular is immune to Thunder Wave and Return and can cause major damage with DynamicPunch and its STAB Earthquake. In terms of other Ghost-types, like Misdreavus and Drifblim, be cautious if you are not running Substitute; Regigigas has the bulk to sponge a lot of their attacks, and it is possible for them to actually lose to confusion damage. Bastiodon, Golem, and Probopass are all effective switch-ins to Regigigas lacking Drain Punch: Bastiodon stops Regigigas cold with Magic Coat and Roar, Golem is immune to Thunder Wave and hits hard enough to break Regigigas's Substitutes but must be cautious of confusion damage and constant Returns, and Probopass also needs to be aware that it too can succumb to the effects of confusion damage and repeated Return hits.</p>

<p>Crippling Regigigas with Will-O-Wisp or Toxic easily shatters its dreams of crushing its enemies, but keep in mind that most teams that are using Regigigas will also have a cleric that needs to be taken care of first. Toxic Spikes also instantly shuts Regigigas down, but again, Poison-types or Rapid Spin users will be seen to accommodate for this; be sure to pack Pokemon to dispose of them. Furthermore, any phazer with Whirlwind or Roar can stop Regigigas from clearing its Slow Start ability, but understand that this method is not the most optimal. This is because parafusion might prevent the use of these moves and Regigigas is also often the last Pokemon on the team, making this method unusable. Dragon Tail is also not recommended, as most users of it typically lack the power to break Regigigas's Substitutes. Perish Song, however, is a deadly weapon to use against Regigigas. Even though parafusion might prevent it from being used, its a good answer to Regigigas even if it's the last Pokemon on the team. Prankster Murkrow and Misdreavus are perfect users of this.</p>

<p>It's also possible to defeat Regigigas by simply brute forcing it. Exploiting its Fighting-type weakness with the likes of Sawk and Gurdurr works well. Luck might be needed when using Sawk due to parafusion, but Gurdurr finds itself enjoying the paralysis, thanks to Guts, and it packs Bulk Up to bolster its Attack and Defense, Drain Punch to restore the health it loses from confusion and Return damage, and Mach Punch to snatch a quick KO against an exposed Regigigas.</p>