[Overview]

<p>Regice's main objective hasn't changed throughout the generations; it mainly functions as a special wall because of its enormous base 200 Special Defense, standing high above the competition. However, it must usually rely on the RestTalk strategy for recovery, which can hinder its defensive capabilities. Regice is also well-known for its BoltBeam combination, which gives it nearly perfect coverage. Regice can also play the role of a setup sweeper, with Rock Polish raising its Speed to astonishing heights. Despite its horrible defensive typing and Stealth Rock weakness, Regice can perform well in whatever role it has been assigned.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Tank
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Thunderbolt
item: Leftovers
nature: Modest
evs: 248 HP / 252 SpA / 8 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Regice's amazing special bulk and acceptable base 100 Special Attack are combined to form an offensive tank set. It doesn't exactly fit the role of a support Pokemon, but with its near-perfect coverage and a recovery option in Rest, it makes for a great balanced Pokemon. Rest is Regice's only recovery move, healing it in a pinch. Sleep Talk provides the second half of the RestTalk strategy, which allows Regice to check threats it needs to while maintaining its longevity. One notable issue with RestTalk is that it is much easier to switch into, and must rely on the luck of Sleep Talk to inflict damage. The final two moveslots give Regice the famous BoltBeam combination, which hits almost every Pokemon for neutral damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Leftovers is the ideal item for this set for extended longevity. However, a Chesto Berry can be used to wake up Regice from Rest. What makes Chesto Berry a situational choice is that it only wakes Regice from sleep once; after the Chesto Berry has been eaten and Rest is used a second time, Regice is forced to rely on Sleep Talk in order to avoid becoming setup fodder. 248 HP EVs are so that Regice can come in four times with Stealth Rock on the field. 252 Special Attack EVs with a Modest nature maximizes Regice's damage output when using its special attacks. An EV spread focusing on Special Defense can be used to allow Regice to tank special hits much easier, but with its huge base 200 Special Defense, it's rarely needed. Toxic can be used in this set, as it's great at crippling bulky Pokemon that Regice has difficulties getting past, such as Piloswine and Eelektross. Thunder Wave can also be used to cripple faster Pokemon that Regice walls such as Ludicolo, Samurott, and Jynx, as well support the team by giving slower Pokemon such as Choice Band Sawk and Braviary the ability to outspeed Pokemon they normally would not. Focus Blast can be used instead of Rest&mdash;forgoing Sleep Talk and Chesto Berry as well&mdash;to hit Pokemon such as Lickilicky and Probopass harder; however, it's not recommended, as Rest's recovery allows Regice to last longer in the match.</p>

<p>Entry hazards, especially Stealth Rock, can easily wear Regice down. Because of this, Rapid Spin support is appreciated. Wartortle is a great spinner, as it has good defensive synergy with Regice. If you want Regice to wake up from Rest sooner, Heal Bell support is recommended; Lickilicky, Flareon, and Musharna are great options in this department, as they all have great bulk to tank hits alongside Regice; the first two can even offer Wish support when Rest's sleep effect is unwanted. Because foes usually opt to target Regice's Defense, physically defensive Pokemon such as Alomomola and Tangela are great partners. The former can offer Wish and the latter offers Leech Seed; Regice appreciates all the recovery it can get. Samurott and Seismitoad have good synergy with Regice, as they deal with each others weaknesses quite well. Sawk and Gurdurr can punch through either set easily; Misdreavus and Garbodor are great partners to handle not only them, but other Fighting-types as well.</p>

[SET]
name: Rock Polish
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Focus Blast
item: Life Orb
nature: Modest
evs: 32 HP / 252 SpA / 224 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Regice's Speed is the only thing holding it back from performing a sweep against other teams; Rock Polish fixes that. With access to Rock Polish, great overall bulk, and a decent Special Attack, Regice stands as a bulky sweeper that can inflict damage and take a hit in the process. Regice has perfect coverage with its three attacking moves, allowing it to hit every Pokemon in NU for neutral damage. It works best as a late-game sweeper, as it doesn't quite have the offensive presence to KO bulky Pokemon early- or mid-game. Rock Polish is what makes the magic happen in this set; at +2, Regice can outspeed positive-natured base 125 Pokemon or below, such as Swellow, Scolipede, and Floatzel, which is mind-blowing. Regice wields a BoltBeam combination in this set as well; Ice Beam is Regice's STAB, and when paired with Thunderbolt, it gives Regice a nearly perfect coverage. Focus Blast is the final coverage move, as it hits Pokemon such as Probopass, Rotom-F, and Piloswine for more damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Regice has 252 EVs in Special Attack, a Life Orb, and a Modest nature to give it as much offensive potential as possible. 32 HP EVs give Regice 309 HP, meaning it'll take 30 damage from Life Orb recoil instead of 31. The Speed EVs allow it to outrun Swellow at +2. Leftovers can be used over Life Orb for consistent healing, but the lack of power makes Regice less effective as a sweeper. There aren't any viable alternative move selections for this set.</p>

<p>Entry hazard users are appreciated alongside Regice with this set; because Regice is a late-game sweeper, having Pokemon weakened will benefit it, as some Pokemon, specifically Samurott and Sawk, can only be KOed with entry hazard damage. Roselia, while sharing a Fire-type weakness with Regice, can take the physical Fighting-type attacks that Regice can't stand and lay down Spikes. Golurk can check Fighting-types for Regice and set up Stealth Rock. Rapid Spin support is recommended, as Regice is revenge killed more easily after taking residual damage. Wartortle is a good option, as it can take the Fire-type attacks aimed at Regice while having good defensive synergy. U-turn or Volt Switch support is appreciated, as it gets Regice on the field safely. Pokemon such as Swellow, Braviary, and Eelektross are good options, as the former two can deal with bulky Pokemon Regice can't beat, such as Musharna, while the latter has Coil to raise its Defense, making it good backup against physically offensive Pokemon Regice has issues with. If Regice gets paralyzed, its chances of sweeping are ruined. Heal Bell support from Pokemon such as Flareon, Lickilicky, and Miltank is appreciated; Flareon and Lickilicky can also offer Wish support. Ironically, opposing Regice with Thunder Wave can paralyze Regice, rendering Rock Polish useless. Fighting-types such as Gurdurr can demolish opposing Regice.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Choice Specs set can be used to further enhance Regice's offensive presence. However, Regice would be switching quite often when locked into an attack, and considering that its vulnerable to all three forms of entry hazards, it wouldn't be successful. Charge Beam is also a good way to raise Regice's Special Attack in hopes of Regice achieving the role of a wallbreaker. However, Regice is a slow Pokemon, and it is difficult to find moveslot for Charge Beam. Psych Up and Frost Breath are plausible options to beat Calm Mind sweepers. Icy Wind is viable as well, having similar effects as Thunder Wave but acting as a STAB move. Curse is great way to compensate for Regice's saddening Defense, but Regice's Attack isn't something worth enhancing, and its physically offensive movepool is quite disappointing.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Regice doesn't have a reliable source of recovery, so slowly wearing it down with entry hazards is your best bet. Piloswine, Regirock, and other entry hazard leads can get Stealth Rock on the field and even attack Regice with their powerful STAB moves. Physical attackers, such as Sawk, Gurdurr, Kangaskhan, and the Rock-types mentioned earlier, are prime examples of Pokemon that can aim for Regice's weaker Defense; however, these Pokemon are crippled by Thunder Wave, which makes Regice harder to defeat. Specially defensive Camerupt can take anything Regice throws at it, set up Stealth Rock, and Roar it away. Throh can take Regice's attacks well, use Circle Throw, and isn't crippled by Thunder Wave because of Guts. Bulky Pokemon that can heal themselves of paralysis, such as Lickilicky, Flareon, and Miltank, can avoid being crippled and attack Regice. The best way of defeating Regice is to target its Defense using physical attackers and Pokemon that can both take a hit and brush off Thunder Wave; Regice can easily be weakened at that point.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Ice Body would be a great ability to use in hail, as it would provide consistent healing. However, with Snow Warning banned and only an extremely small number of Pokemon that can utilize the move Hail effectively, it won't be of much use to Regice in NU.</p>