[Overview]

<p>Regirock sits in a decent place within the NU metagame, boasting the most physical bulk and checking many of NU's top-tier physical threats, such as Swellow, Kangaskhan, and Braviary, with its mono-Rock typing. Furthermore, it is equipped with a great Attack stat, making it an effective, hard-hitting tank. Along with its access to a variety of support options, Regirock is undeniably a tough threat to take down without strong super effective STAB attacks. However, Regirock does come with evident flaws, most notably its lack of reliable recovery. This makes it vulnerable to wear and tear, eventually succumbing to the damage it's meant to be taking. On top of that, the same Rock typing that makes Regirock a great answer to the sweepers mentioned above leaves it with weaknesses to common Water-, Grass-, Ground-, and Fighting-type attacks. Due to this, many powerful attackers, such as Samurott, Exeggutor, Golurk, and Sawk, can greatly hinder Regirock's performance.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Stone Edge / Rock Slide
move 3: Drain Punch
move 4: Toxic / Thunder Wave
item: Leftovers
nature: Impish
evs: 240 HP / 252 Atk / 16 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Regirock's best set in the current metagame. With its excellent defensive capabilities and viable offensive presence, Regirock makes a great Stealth Rock user and status spreader for any kind of team. Stone Edge hits very hard off of Regirock's high Attack stat, 2HKOing many non-physically defensive Pokemon at the least. However, if power isn't an issue, Rock Slide is still a great alternative given its higher PP and accuracy. Drain Punch provides fantastic coverage alongside Regirock's Rock-type attack of choice, smacking the likes of Bastiodon, Probopass, and Lickilicky hard. It also provides beneficial recovery, something Regirock lacks a reliable source of. The last slot is dedicated to Regirock's status move of choice. Toxic is great for crippling Pokemon Regirock has a hard time getting by, such as Golurk, Alomomola, and Tangela, while Thunder Wave works great for hampering Regirock's prominent switch-ins, such as Sawk and Primeape, accommodates for its middling Speed, and pairs excellently with Rock Slide's flinch chance.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>In the last slot, Curse is a decent alternative if you prefer Regirock to combat boosting sweepers better, most notably Bulk Up Braviary, and is generally useful to improve Regirock's damage output and Defense stat. However, note that this leaves Regirock completely walled by the omnipresent Golurk. Rocky Helmet is a reasonable alternative to Leftovers if you prefer to punish physical attackers, such as Miltank and Swellow, even further. In terms of the EV spread, it focuses on helping Regirock tank hits and dish attacks out hard, as well as outpacing max Speed Torkoal. An Impish nature is preferred to help with the physical threats that Regirock is meant to check better, as an Adamant nature generally doesn't help Regirock score any notable kills.</p>

<p>Given that Regirock lacks any sort of reliable recovery, Wish support is greatly appreciated. Lickilicky and Audino are great in this department, as they help deal with the special onslaughts Regirock often comes across and can provide Heal Bell support in the event that Regirock is crippled with status. It's also recommended to use Pokemon that capitalize on Regirock's weaknesses. Exeggutor is a great option, as it resists Regirock's common Fighting-, Water-, Grass-, and Ground-type weaknesses, and Regirock can assist with its Fire- and Flying-type weaknesses. Ludicolo is also a great choice to look into, resisting Regirock's Ground- and Water-type weaknesses, and reasonably deals with Golurk, Regirock's main nemesis. Golurk itself is also an excellent partner, being immune to Regirock's Fighting-type weakness. It should be noted that Choice Band Golurk and specially defensive Ludicolo make a very effective balanced core with Regirock.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Regirock is equipped with an enormous movepool, but unfortunately it is flooded with underwhelming options. A RestTalk set can be used to compensate for Regirock's lack of recovery and, when paired with Curse, can be a decent mono-attacker with Rock Slide; however, Regirock's common weaknesses can make this difficult to execute. It's also possible to utilize a Chesto Berry with Rest to prevent being setup fodder from sleeping. A specially defensive EV spread is an effective alternative if you wish Regirock to check special attackers, such as Eelektross, Zebstrika, and Haunter, better. Regirock also has access to a variety of special attacks, such as Earth Power, Focus Blast, Charge Beam, Thunderbolt, and more, but its pitiful Special Attack makes them unusable. The elemental punches are available for use and hit certain Pokemon that can be an issue, such as Fire Punch for Bronzor and Metang, ThunderPunch for Alomomola, and Ice Punch for Tangela, but these punches are typically not strong enough to make running them worthwhile and Stone Edge hits just as hard normally as they do super effectively. Hammer Arm and Superpower can be used for a stronger Fighting-type attack, but Drain Punch is a lot more beneficial, as it hits decently enough and replenishes some of Regirock's HP. Earthquake is also an alternative to Drain Punch to have the EdgeQuake combination, but Drain Punch already hits almost everything that Earthquake would be used for and has better overall coverage. Explosion can be used to surprise an unsuspecting opponent and can work on a Custap Berry set; however, Golem and Gigalith run it better and if you do choose to use it, you sacrifice your Normal- and Flying-type check. Due to Regirock's great bulk, it can be a reliable Sunny Day or Gravity supporter. Lastly, Regirock can execute a Swagger + Psych Up tactic, but this is generally not worth it given how unreliable it is.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Golurk is the number one Regirock counter. It's immune to Drain Punch and Thunder Wave, and packs a resistance to Regirock's STAB attacks, allowing it to freely switch in and pulverize Regirock with a STAB Earthquake, DynamicPunch, or even Drain Punch of its own. Toxic is all that Golurk needs to watch out for.</p>

<p>Anything with enough Defense generally works well against Regirock, being able to sponge its attacks and set up on it. Garbodor can spill layers of Toxic Spikes or Spikes, Alomomola can Toxic stall it, Tangela can sap it with Giga Drain, and Golem can smash it with its STAB Earthquake, among others; however, they must be cautious of Regirock carrying status. Regirock's also susceptible to burn and poison status, and without any form of reliable recovery, the residual damage will often overwhelm it.</p>

<p>Strong attackers that carry STAB super effective moves can break through Regirock's defenses. These include Sawk, Primeape, Seismitoad, Gorebyss, and Exeggutor. Furthermore, a number of Pokemon can set up against it, such as Bulk Up Gurdurr and Throh, who both don't mind status thanks to their Guts ability; Substitute + Nasty Plot Misdreavus, who can block status ailments and is bulky enough to take hits; and Swords Dance Samurott, who's also not significantly hampered by status.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Regirock receives Sturdy from the Dream World. While Sturdy has its merits, Clear Body's ability to prevent stat drops is often more beneficial. Due to Regirock's superb bulk, it is almost impossible to OHKO anyway, so Sturdy offers little to Regirock.</p>