[Overview]

<p>Scraggy's Dark/Fighting typing, shared only with its evolution, allows it to check numerous Psychic-type Pokemon while granting it neutral coverage on everything in NU. Eviolite gives Scraggy some solid bulk to work with, and Shed Skin allows it to break free of status, such as sleep from Jynx's Lovely Kiss and burn from Misdreavus's Will-O-Wisp. Along with this, Scraggy also has two good boosting moves, Bulk Up and Dragon Dance, to boost its middling Attack to high levels. However, its Attack is very low before a boost, and as such, Scraggy will need a couple of turns to be a real threat. It also has two common weaknesses to Fighting- and Flying-type attacks, which often limit its chances to set up. Scraggy is also very slow, meaning even after one Dragon Dance boost, faster Pokemon, such as Scolipede and Choice Scarf Primeape, can still outspeed it.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulk Up
move 1: Bulk Up
move 2: Drain Punch
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Rest
item: Eviolite
ability: Shed Skin
nature: Careful
evs: 248 HP / 8 Atk / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is arguably Scraggy's best set in the NU metagame, as its solid bulk with Eviolite and its useful typing allow it to grab Bulk Up boosts as it likes. It stands out from its biggest competitor, Gurdurr, with its Dark typing, which allows it to take on Psychic- and Ghost-types decently. It is also bulky enough that, after a number of boosts, even super effective moves, such as Sawk and Primeape's Close Combats, are unable to OHKO it. Its ability, Shed Skin, is excellent, as it lets Scraggy check Jynx decently while being an excellent counter to Musharna and Misdreavus. Bulk Up is Scraggy's form of boosting, bolstering its bulk and power to tremendous levels. Drain Punch is Scraggy's primary STAB move, and also provides it with a decent form of recovery. Crunch is Scraggy's secondary STAB move, providing excellent coverage with Drain Punch, and is part of what makes Scraggy an excellent Musharna and Misdreavus counter. Finally, Rest is a form of recovery should Scraggy be low on health; Shed Skin also makes it more reliable than it would normally be.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A specially defensive spread is chosen as Scraggy's typing allows it to better check special attackers and its Defense is getting boosted by Bulk Up anyway. Payback is a usable option over Crunch, as Scraggy is very slow and can usually use it at full power. However, running it means Scraggy cannot effectively counter Musharna. Garbodor and Scolipede make viable options for partners, resisting Fighting-type moves and providing entry hazard support. Musharna has excellent defensive synergy with Scraggy and can spread paralysis to make its job easier. Rotom-S also has excellent defensive synergy and offensive synergy, as it is capable of eliminating Primeape, Sawk, and Swellow, which all trouble Scraggy.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Hi Jump Kick
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Drain Punch
item: Eviolite
ability: Shed Skin
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Scraggy stands out from other Dragon Dance users with its excellent coverage in its STABs alone and its access to Shed Skin. Scraggy is also fairly bulky with Eviolite, and its typing, which grants it useful resistances to Psychic- and Rock-type moves, allows it to grab boosts with relative ease. Although its Speed doesn't look too great, it is good enough for Scraggy to succeed. Dragon Dance is the main move of the set, as Scraggy aims to be a sweeper with it. Hi Jump Kick is chosen as the main STAB move for its raw power. Crunch complements it well, pummeling Musharna and Misdreavus while giving Scraggy effectively perfect coverage. Finally, Drain Punch is a reliable move that also allows Scraggy to heal its HP.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Attack and Speed to make the most out of Dragon Dance. A Jolly nature is chosen to make sure Scraggy can outspeed base 95 Speed Pokemon, such as Jynx and Sawsbuck, after a boost from Dragon Dance. Shed Skin is the preferred ability to makes sure Scraggy doesn't get crippled by status as it boosts. Moxie is a useful alternative to grab more Attack boosts and make it easier for Scraggy to sweep after a boost. However, this means Scraggy is more vulnerable to status. Ice Punch is a usable option over Drain Punch to deliver a harder blow to Rotom-S and Altaria, but this rarely is helpful over the recovery provided by Drain Punch, as Crunch provides enough coverage in most situations. As Scraggy is a sweeper, it appreciates entry hazard support; Garbodor and Scolipede are both solid options for providing this, as they resist Fighting-type moves and can attract Psychic- and Rock-type moves for Scraggy to set up on. Rotom-S has excellent defensive and offensive synergy with Scraggy and can also use Volt Switch to send it in safely. Finally, Musharna is a great choice for its synergy and can spread paralysis with Thunder Wave to help Scraggy deal with faster threats such as Scolipede and Choice Scarf Primeape.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Head Smash and Stone Edge are both usable options to handle Flying-types better, although their poor accuracy does not do them any favors and the former's massive recoil is often detrimental. Dragon Tail is a usable option for phazing and allows Scraggy to rack up entry hazard damage. Low Sweep can be used to make it easier for Scraggy to outspeed its foes, but the move is very weak in general. Zen Headbutt, Fire Punch, and ThunderPunch are all decent coverage options, although they provide nothing notable that Scraggy's STABs don't already cover.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fighting-types and Flying-types are the best ways to handle Scraggy. Primeape and Sawk are capable of quickly making work of Scraggy with Close Combat, but be aware that they cannot OHKO it if Scraggy has accumulated enough Bulk Up boosts. Gurdurr can boost alongside Scraggy and defeat it. Rotom-S, Swellow, and Braviary are also viable options; the former can also use Trick to remove Scraggy's Eviolite. Weezing is extremely bulky and can take anything Scraggy has to offer; it also has Haze to reset any boosts Scraggy may have attained. Tangela is also very bulky and can use Leech Seed and Giga Drain to chip away at Scraggy's HP. Finally, any user of Trick or Taunt can neuter Scraggy and make it a complete non-threat.</p>