[Overview]

<p>Seismitoad has several qualities that earn it a spot on many teams in NU. Its stats are very well-balanced, making it a threat to look out for both offensively and defensively. Its excellent bulk, Water / Ground typing, and incredibly useful ability in Water Absorb allow Seismitoad to serve as a capable defensive pivot. On the other hand, Seismitoad's access to powerful attacks, such as Hydro Pump and Earthquake, and Swift Swim ability ensure its capability as a sweeper and offensive tank as well. Its access to Stealth Rock only adds to its viability, as it functions incredibly well as a Stealth Rock setter thanks to its ability to threaten out a large majority of the tier and set it up. Unfortunately, Seismitoad's lack of reliable recovery severely hinders its ability to check multiple threats on a team; in other words, it's worn down quite easily, especially with the offensive nature of the metagame. While its typing might bless it with various resistances and immunities, it also burdens Seismitoad with a crippling 4x weakness to Grass that opponents can easily use to their advantage.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Scald
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Toxic / Knock Off
item: Leftovers
ability: Water Absorb
nature: Relaxed
evs: 200 HP / 252 Def / 56 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its excellent typing, useful ability, and good bulk, Seismitoad is extremely effective with a physically based defensive set. It matches up excellently against the most common users of Stealth Rock in the tier: Golem, Piloswine, Golurk, Regirock, and Armaldo, all of which are weak to its STAB moves and are physical attackers. In addition, their special bulk is average at best, meaning that Seismitoad can dispose of them easily with Scald. To truly appreciate just how effective Seismitoad is at taking on these Pokemon, it's only 3HKOed by Golurk, has a 25% chance to be 4HKOed by Golem, is 4HKOed by Piloswine, and is only 5HKOed by Armaldo, while Regirock cannot even touch it. These are all Pokemon with high Attack stats, generally full offensive investment, and powerful Earthquakes. Being physically based also makes Seismitoad the best counter to one of the most threatening Pokemon in the tier: Shell Smash Carracosta. However, Seismitoad is not limited to taking resisted hits; both Choice Band Sawk and Braviary fail to OHKO it even after Stealth Rock and Spikes damage, while Seismitoad can deal a powerful blow to Sawk's reduced defenses or potentially burn them both with Scald.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is an obvious choice on a Pokemon that matches up so well against the other Pokemon that set it up and outspeeds all of them even with a Relaxed nature. Major threats such as Scolipede, Jynx, and Charizard hate having to lose so much of their HP when they switch in, and Seismitoad is extremely reliable at ensuring this happens. Scald is the obligatory STAB move of choice on a defensive Water-type Pokemon such as Seismitoad, and the relatively high chance to burn the opponent makes Seismitoad even more of a full stop to physical attackers. Earthquake is the recommended move over Earth Power, as it OHKOes Jynx after Stealth Rock and generally deals more damage. The last slot is fairly variable. Toxic is the recommended choice, as bulky Grass-types, such as Serperior and Ludicolo, love to switch into Seismitoad but absolutely despise being badly poisoned. It's also an excellent way to wear down other bulky Water-types, such as Alomomola. Knock Off is a more colorful option that can be used to scout potential sets based on the opponent's item and is very handy for crippling the many Eviolite users that reside in the tier.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Protect is another possible move to use in the last slot. It enables Seismitoad to regain more HP from Leftovers and again allows you to scout effectively and react accordingly. More specifically, it allows Seismitoad to check for any random Hidden Power Grasses or Grass Knots from the likes of Samurott and opposing Seismitoad. It's especially lethal if Seismitoad is paired with a Toxic Spikes user, as the extra turns to whittle the opponent's HP can be crucial.</p>

<p>The EVs on this set are fairly specific. Defense is maximized so that Seismitoad can take on the threats it's supposed to counter with maximum efficiency, while 200 HP EVs hit a Leftovers number. The 56 EVs in Special Defense ensure that Seismitoad is never OHKOed by Hidden Power Grass from Life Orb Zebstrika and Electrode. It even has a good chance to avoid the OHKO after Stealth Rock damage and can proceed to OHKO both of them in return with Earthquake. A specially defensive EV spread is viable and helps Seismitoad better check the likes of Electric-types and Jynx, but it loses the ability to beat opposing Stealth Rock leads as well as Shell Smash Carracosta. Some Speed EVs are also an option, with 24 coupled with either a Bold or Impish nature allowing Seismitoad to outspeed maximum Speed Golem, but this detracts from either Scald or Earthquake's power and Seismitoad is capable of defeating Golem regardless.</p>

<p>Ideal teammates for Seismitoad will be able to switch into the Grass-type attacks targeted at it with little to no risk. Sap Sipper Pokemon, such as Miltank and Sawsbuck, can gain a boost to their Attack for free and then do as they please. Roselia has excellent defensive synergy with Seismitoad, as it takes next to nothing from Grass-type attacks and can strike back at their users with its STAB Sludge Bomb. It also handles special threats akin to how Seismitoad takes care of physical ones and has the ability to set up additional entry hazards. Metang is another solid choice for a teammate, with the two covering each other's weaknesses nicely and Metang's access to Stealth Rock freeing Seismitoad to use another move in lieu of it. Flying-types are also good partners, as they can switch in on Grass-types easily and immediately threaten them with their STAB moves. Articuno, Braviary, and Charizard are notable examples, as Articuno has the sheer bulk and STAB combination to beat practically any Grass-type, Braviary can use them as setup fodder, and Charizard sports a quadruple resistance to Grass, while Seismitoad also covers all of Charizard's weaknesses perfectly. Other than that, it's really Seismitoad who supports the team and not the other way around.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Stealth Rock
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Hydro Pump
move 3: Earth Power
move 4: Toxic / Grass Knot
item: Leftovers
ability: Water Absorb
nature: Modest
evs: 232 HP / 252 SpA / 24 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes a more offensive approach to setting up Stealth Rock in order to take advantage of its excellent offensive typing, while still matching up brilliantly against opposing Stealth Rock leads. With the combination of its two STABs, Seismitoad is capable of taking down nearly every Stealth Rock lead in the tier barring the rare Torterra and Cradily, effectively turning it into a powerful anti-lead. While it certainly can't stomach Earthquakes as well as more defensive sets can, it really doesn't need to, as its higher offensive presence allows it to take down opposing leads in one or two hits.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is a staple on this set, as Seismitoad is such a reliable setter of it and can then follow up with a powerful attack. While Seismitoad does somewhat lack power, Hydro Pump's high Base Power more than makes up for this, making quick work of common leads such as Golurk, Golem, Piloswine, Armaldo, and Regirock. Earth Power is Seismitoad's chosen Ground STAB, notably hitting Steel-types such as Metang, Probopass, and Bastiodon, none of which can do much in return. Finally, the last moveslot is generally reserved for Toxic, deterring bulky walls and Grass-types from switching in, as the chip damage can go a long way in ensuring one doesn't get swept by the likes of Ludicolo and Serperior. Grass Knot, on the other hand, is a viable coverage move that adds to Seismitoad's ability as an anti-lead; while it doesn't appear to provide much in coverage, it punishes opposing Seismitoad, which in itself makes it viable. Aside from that, though, Toxic is the more useful choice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Seismitoad to outspeed maximum Speed Golem, maximizes power, and puts the rest into bulk to give it a bit more longevity. Maximum Speed investment can be used, but as Seismitoad's main goal is to take down opposing Stealth Rock leads, it isn't necessary. Leftovers further capitalizes on Seismitoad's good natural bulk, allowing it to take random hits with less pressure. To players who are less conservative and more focused on OHKOing certain leads, Expert Belt is an interesting item choice to consider; this makes Seismitoad capable of OHKOing standard Piloswine with Hydro Pump. This especially comes in handy when using Grass Knot, allowing Seismitoad to OHKO opposing bulky Seismitoad. On that note, Life Orb is an even more offensive approach that powers up all of Seismitoad's attacks; this, however, does not bring any notable KOs along with it, and it detracts from Seismitoad's tanking abilities.</p>

<p>The fourth moveslot can also vary somewhat from Toxic and Grass Knot, with some honorable mentions including Hidden Power Ice and Sludge Bomb. Hidden Power Ice is most notable for hitting Torterra and Cradily, the two Stealth Rock leads Seismitoad is not capable of beating otherwise, for super effective damage. While it does improve Seismitoad's coverage quite a bit, neither of these Pokemon are common enough to warrant its use, and it still fails to 2HKO Cradily anyway. Sludge Bomb also provides decent coverage, most notably against Ludicolo. However, this does not help Seismitoad achieve any KOs against opposing leads, and it shouldn't be staying in on Ludicolo anyway.</p>

<p>Seismitoad can set up Stealth Rock, prevent the opponent from setting up their own Stealth Rock, and easily dispose of its common setters. Because of this, any Pokemon that can take advantage of all of this is a quality partner. Braviary, Charizard, and Jynx are some of the best examples of this, all handily appreciating Seismitoad's services and in return easily dealing with Grass-types, foes which Seismitoad quickly falls to. This set finds its home mainly on offensive teams that enjoy the Stealth Rock support it provides without losing momentum. Seismitoad does not outstall the opponent through sheer bulk like defensive sets do; it uses its natural bulk to tank one or two hits and its greater power to make KOing them easier.</p>

[SET]
name: Swift Swim
move 1: Rain Dance
move 2: Hydro Pump
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Stealth Rock / Sludge Bomb
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Mild
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the most offensive approach to Seismitoad you can take and is its best shot at sweeping. While it might have inferior offensive stats and a narrower offensive movepool than other Swift Swim sweepers such as Gorebyss and Ludicolo, Seismitoad has two qualities that set it apart from its competition: an immunity to Electric and access to Stealth Rock. This can be key for many dedicated rain teams, who would often otherwise lack both. While there are often better choices for standalone rain sweepers, Seismitoad plays the role of both a supporter and a sweeper, and it pulls it off well.</p>

<p>Rain Dance is the obvious focus of the set; doubling Seismitoad's Speed and significantly increasing its power is mandatory to begin its sweep. Also, because Seismitoad often finds itself paired up with other rain sweepers, they can often pick up each other's slack should one of them be taken down. Hydro Pump is the obvious Water STAB, hitting extremely hard when factoring in rain and the Life Orb boost. Earthquake is the recommended Ground STAB on this set&mdash;while it does split Seismitoad's offenses and forces it to run a Defense-lowering nature, it boasts the ability to OHKO and 2HKO Jynx and Roselia, respectively, two huge threats to rain teams. Finally, Stealth Rock is an extremely useful move in the last slot, allowing Seismitoad to support its team and still be able to reliably sweep in the rain. As many rain teams often lack a Stealth Rock setter, it's also a massive selling point in that regard. That said, if your team does already have a Stealth Rock setter, Sludge Bomb provides great coverage alongside Seismitoad's STABs, notably hitting Grass-types for super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With maximum Speed investment, Seismitoad can outspeed everything up to +1 base 100 Speed Pokemon in the rain, and the rest of the EVs emphasize on power. A Mild nature secures the OHKO on Jynx and 2HKO on Roselia with Earthquake, no entry hazards required, and preserves Seismitoad's Special Defense, as it is usually the main check to Electric-types on a rain team. A Rash nature can preserve its physical Defense and helps it tank stray Stone Edges and Earthquakes better. This is not usually necessary, though, as rain teams always carry more than one Rock- and Ground-type check on their team, and taking hits from Electric-types better is far more important.</p>

<p>Surf continues the never-ending debate of power vs. accuracy; in this case, however, the power of Hydro Pump has priority as Seismitoad is not the strongest attacker around. Earth Power can be used with a Modest nature to make use of the set's higher Special Attack investment, and at the same time preserve its physical bulk. Despite this, Earthquake is still the superior option, as the ability to defeat Jynx and Roselia is not found on many other rain sweepers in the tier. Hidden Power Ice is an option over Stealth Rock and Sludge Bomb; like Sludge Bomb, it hits most Grass-types for super effective damage, but it also has the added effect of KOing Altaria, who would wall this set otherwise. Unfortunately, it misses out on hitting Ludicolo, the most common Grass-type in the metagame, and often fails to do enough damage to Grass-types anyway. Finally, if Life Orb's recoil doesn't appeal to you, Damp Rock and Leftovers are viable alternatives. Both have unique traits surrounding them, with the former extending rain turns and the latter increasing longevity. The power boost from Life Orb is far more important, though, and as this set plays a bit more recklessly than others, Life Orb recoil is often negligible.</p>

<p>As stated before, this Seismitoad works best on dedicated rain teams thanks to its access to both Stealth Rock and Rain Dance, and its partners should reflect that. Articuno and Jynx are two prime examples of such&mdash;dealing with problematic Grass-types easily as well as benefiting from rain through a 100% accurate Hurricane and Dry Skin, respectively. Roselia and Vileplume also pair up with Seismitoad well; not only do they 4x resist Grass and can retaliate back with STAB Sludge Bomb, but they also enjoy the rain thanks to having their Fire weakness removed. Finally, Ludicolo is an excellent partner for this set, as it absolutely loves having both rain and Stealth Rock already set up when it enters the field and in general shares great offensive synergy with Seismitoad.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Seismitoad does have a rather shallow movepool (even lacking moves such as Waterfall and Ice Beam), and most of its options have already been covered. RestTalk is Seismitoad's only form of recovery, but RestTalk is far too unreliable to work and often ends up doing more harm than good due to forcing Seismitoad to give up two valuable moveslots. Focus Blast can be used on the offensive sets to provide coverage against Normal-types, such as Lickilicky and Audino. Unfortunately, they are both bulky enough that they can take Focus Blast and heal it off, so it doesn't help much at all. Seismitoad's physical movepool is relatively expansive, with access to moves such as Earthquake, Drain Punch, Ice Punch, and Rock Slide, so a fully physical set sounds decent at first. The lack of a Water-type STAB is rather disappointing, though. Likewise, a mixed set using moves such as Hydro Pump, Earthquake, Sludge Bomb, and Drain Punch sounds plausible, but it doesn't end up accomplishing anything Seismitoad's other sets can't already do.</p>

<p>A special mention goes to a set carrying both Substitute and Toxic, allowing Seismitoad to systematically break down walls such as Alomomola. It does, however, detract from Seismitoad's sweeping potential quite a bit. It's still a perfectly viable set, though; it just doesn't differentiate itself enough to warrant its own set. Another interesting choice is the combination of Substitute and Endeavor, allowing Seismitoad to lure in and defeat many of its counters; this is somewhat difficult to pull off, however, and detracts from Seismitoad's utility. Poison Touch might sound interesting on physical sets, but in reality it is just straight-up outclassed by Seismitoad's other two abilities. Rindo Berry is an interesting item, particularly on the more defensive sets; it allows Seismitoad to survive one Grass-type move and proceed to do what it likes. However, this does not make up for a lack of Leftovers, and it only works once. Finally, Choice Specs is usable, but it is inferior to other offensive sets, as they boast far more utility.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As it stands, Grass-types are the best clear-cut answers to Seismitoad; not only do they resist its STAB combination, but they can OHKO in return with their STABs. A Grass / Poison-type, such as Vileplume, fares even better against Seismitoad&mdash;not only is it not weak to Sludge Bomb, but it is immune to Toxic as well, leaving Seismitoad with near no hope of emerging victorious. As Seismitoad is not overly powerful, special walls generally fare well against it. Lickilicky and Altaria are two prime example of this, thanks to their ability to take Seismitoad's attacks with ease and heal off Toxic with Heal Bell. Mantine is basically a complete stop to any Seismitoad; it is immune to both its STABs, can heal off Toxic thanks to Rest, and can whittle away at Seismitoad's health with Air Slash. Regice is another great counter to Seismitoad, not fearing Toxic thanks to Rest and taking it down with a few Ice Beams. Jynx is also an excellent check thanks to Dry Skin and the ability to threaten it with Lovely Kiss, though it does fear Earthquake. Finally, residual damage&mdash;in addition to simply pounding away at it with powerful attacks&mdash;is effective at wearing down Seismitoad, as its lack of reliable recovery can easily be used against it.</p>