[Overview]

<p>Shelgon's excellent physical bulk and decent Attack stat allow it to separate itself from other Dragon-types, such as Fraxure and Dragonair. With its good bulk, Shelgon is a decent switch-in to many powerful physical attackers, such as Sawk, Swellow, and Scolipede. With Dragon Dance, Shelgon can set up on many walls and is tough to take down after several boosts, as it takes little damage from priority moves. It can also become a physical wall, utilizing its amazing Defense stat. However, Shelgon has a terrible Special Defense stat as well as poor Speed, leaving it outsped by fast special attackers, even after several turns of setup, most notably by the common Jynx.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Outrage
move 3: Rest
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Eviolite
ability: Overcoat
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 20 Atk / 236 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This Shelgon can potentially tear apart bulky teams, as it has many setup opportunities against them and these teams have fewer methods of taking it down. Dragon Dance Shelgon is also an extremely effective late-game sweeper, especially if it is the last Pokemon alive, as it can no longer be phazed out.</p>

<p>Dragon Dance boosts Shelgon's Attack and Speed, potentially allowing Shelgon to sweep. Outrage is Shelgon's STAB move and hits hard after several boosts. Furthermore, the locking-in effect of Outrage does not occur if selected by Sleep Talk. Rest allows Shelgon to absorb status and set up as much as it likes, especially in the face of walls, before healing off all the damage. Sleep Talk prevents Shelgon from being a sitting duck during its sleep and allows it to grab more boosts or hit something hard with Outrage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The HP and Defense EVs on the spread help Shelgon to avoid the 2HKO from Jolly Choice Band Sawk's Close Combat, and the rest are thrown into Attack to slightly power Shelgon up. An alternate EV spread of 252 HP / 164 Def / 92 Spe allows Shelgon to outpace base 95 Speed Pokemon at +2, but it loses out on a lot of bulk and, ultimately, setup opportunities. Do note that this alternative spread can outspeed Jynx, who otherwise troubles Shelgon, which is useful if you do not have any other methods of removing it.</p>

<p>Shelgon dislikes opposing Bastiodon, which can easily tank a boosted Outrage and phaze it with Roar. Magnet Pull Probopass is a decent partner for Shelgon, as it can trap and kill Bastiodon. Sawk and Golurk are also good partners, as they can take care of the Steel-types that threaten to stop Shelgon. Meanwhile, Shelgon easily sets up on Alomomola and Tangela, both of which can wall Sawk and Golurk. Shelgon absolutely hates Jynx, as it can outspeed it, even at +2, and easily KO with Ice Beam. Choice Scarf variants can even outspeed Shelgon until it gets to +5 Speed. Metang beats Jynx and is therefore a good partner. Furthermore, it can also take care of Bastiodon if it carries Earthquake. Pursuit trappers can also help to reliably revenge kill Jynx and remove it entirely. Tauros and Lum Berry Skuntank are decent partners for this. Shelgon also appreciates Toxic Spikes support, as it allows Shelgon to wear down walls passively while it sets up against them. Scolipede and Garbodor are effective Toxic Spikes users.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Wish
move 2: Protect
move 3: Toxic / Roar
move 4: Dragon Claw
item: Eviolite
ability: Rock Head
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 236 Def / 20 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses on Shelgon's amazing Defense to wall many of the tier's physical attackers. While it faces competition as a physical wall from the likes of Alomomola, Tangela, and Weezing, its typing gives it resistances to Water-, Fire-, Electric-, and Grass-type moves which few other Pokemon can handle in one teamslot. Wish is mainly a form of recovery for Shelgon. In a pinch, it can also grant a teammate some additional health, but due to Shelgon's low HP stat, it is recommended not to rely on it as a Wish passer. Protect allows Shelgon to scout for moves, rack up Toxic damage, and receive its own Wishes safely. Toxic helps Shelgon to cripple walls and annoy offensive opponents that do not appreciate residual damage. On the other hand, Roar can be used for Shelgon to take on the role of a phazer, and it prevents opponents from setting up on it. Dragon Claw is mainly used as a STAB move to finish off weakened foes and avoid becoming Taunt bait.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>While Rock Head sees no use on this set, it is the only ability available because Overcoat is illegal with Wish. This Shelgon set is good on stall teams that need resistances to the four elemental types because it can take on physical attackers relatively well. Because this set hates opposing special attackers, special walls are good teammates. Munchlax is a decent teammate, as it can handle Ice-type attacks easily. Its amazing Special Defense allows it to tank most special hits that Shelgon cannot, and it can even phaze if you choose to run Toxic on Shelgon. Lickilicky can handle special attackers decently well and provide Shelgon with Wish and Heal Bell support. This set hates Toxic Spikes; therefore, grounded Poison-type teammates, such as Garbodor and Vileplume, are recommended. Shelgon also needs cleric support because it can no longer stall effectively once it gets crippled by status. Lickilicky and Vileplume can fulfill that role as well. Finally, this set also loves Toxic Spikes support on the opponent's side, as its stalling job becomes much easier if it does not need to Toxic the opponent manually. The previously mentioned Garbodor can set them up easily.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>An offensive Dragon Dance set is possible, as Shelgon can outspeed base 95 Speed Pokemon after a boost with maximum Speed investment, but this set faces stiff competition from Fraxure and cannot set up as effectively without defensive EVs. The Dragon Dance set can run Brick Break to beat Bastiodon, but because it's hard to find a spare moveslot, it is generally better to rely on team support to do so, especially because Bastiodon is not very common. Toxic can also be used on the Dragon Dance set to wear down Alomomola and Tangela, but once again, it is better to rely on Toxic Spikes support, as Shelgon really struggles to fit Toxic into its moveset. DragonBreath can help the team by spreading paralysis, but it lacks power for the Dragon Dance set and clashes with Toxic for the physical wall set. In addition, it works off Shelgon's weak Special Attack stat. Otherwise, Shelgon does not have many other options because its sets are very inflexible and its movepool is not very large.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bastiodon is a great counter to both sets, as it completely walls the defensive set and it can phaze the Dragon Dance set if Shelgon isn't the last Pokemon remaining. Probopass and Metang can beat the defensive set with Flash Cannon and Toxic, respectively. However, the Dragon Dance variant can set up on them. Klang can set up on Shelgon and eventually KO it with Gear Grind before it can do the same. Most special attackers can also beat Shelgon, especially those carrying an Ice-type move. However, they might face some trouble switching in against the Dragon Dance set. Regice and Piloswine can tank unboosted Outrages with their good bulk and KO Shelgon with their Ice-type attacks. Charizard and Jynx are fast special attackers that easily destroy Shelgon if they get in safely, and they can even outspeed Shelgon at +2. The physical wall set hates Toxic, as it has no way of healing it bar cleric support from its teammates. Therefore, Toxic Spikes are a very good way to wear down Shelgon. Shelgon also hates losing its Eviolite, as it can no longer take hits easily. Thus, using Trick or Knock Off to remove it is a good way to cripple Shelgon.</p>