[Overview]

<p>In a tier filled with offensive Water-types, Simipour might not seem like the best choice for your team. However, Simipour is able to separate itself from other Water-types thanks to its great Speed, diverse offensive movepool, good Special Attack, and access to Nasty Plot. With two great abilities in Gluttony and Torrent, Simipour can utilize Substitute better than most other Water-types in the tier to help it set up and sweep entire teams. Despite all of this, Simipour is also incredibly frail and can be taken out with even neutral attacks. Additionally, while Simipour's Speed is great, without a boost of its own, nearly any Choice Scarf user can revenge kill it.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Hydro Pump
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Grass
item: Life Orb
ability: Gluttony
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Simipour is best played as an offensive wallbreaker and boosting attacker. With Nasty Plot, Simipour is able to break through even the bulkiest of specially defensive walls and tanks in the tier. This set also has fantastic coverage and is able to hit any relevant threat in the tier for at least neutral damage. Hydro Pump is Simipour's most powerful STAB option. Outside of this, Simipour runs Ice Beam for coverage against the Dragon- and Grass-type Pokemon that resist its STAB. Finally, Hidden Power Grass allows Simipour to hit other Water-types for solid damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because Torrent is illegal with Nasty Plot, Simipour uses Gluttony despite its lack of benefits for this set. Life Orb is the item of choice for Simipour, as it helps increase its offensive presence without requiring a boost in order to hit hard. Other moves might also find their way onto this set. Surf can be used over Hydro Pump as a weaker yet more accurate alternative. Focus Blast can also be used to hit specially bulky Ice- and Normal-type Pokemon, such as Regice, Audino, and Lickilicky, harder than the rest of its coverage moves. Grass Knot can be used over Hidden Power Grass, though its inconsistency is often unappealing. While Grass Knot hits Seismitoad and Samurott a bit harder than Hidden Power Grass, it doesn't do enough to make up for the decrease in damage against Alomomola and Gorebyss. Finally, Hidden Power Electric is another option over Hidden Power Grass to hit Mantine for a massive amount of damage. The choice in Hidden Power often boils down to whether you need to beat Mantine or Seismitoad.</p>

<p>Simipour works very well alongside other fast offensive threats, such as Jynx and Zebstrika, which appreciate the removal of opposing special walls. This way, if Simipour isn't able to sweep, a partner can often clean up later on. Gorebyss also forms a good offensive core with Simipour, as they share many of the same checks and counters. If one of the two is unable to sweep, odds are it will have gone down while heavily weakening the opponent's special wall and thus giving an opening for its partner. Because Simipour often struggles to defeat Mantine and specially defensive Ludicolo, it greatly appreciates working alongside Electric- and Grass-types that can take them out; Eelektoss and Exeggutor can handle these Pokemon fairly easily, while Roselia can set up Spikes against them as well.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSalac
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Nasty Plot
move 3: Hydro Pump
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Salac Berry
ability: Gluttony
nature: Timid
EVs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Substitute and a Salac Berry, Simipour is able to make great use of its ability, Gluttony, in order to help it sweep. After only two Substitutes, Simipour is brought to an HP range where it can consume its Salac Berry and hopefully clean the opposing team. Nasty Plot can be helpful in situations where Simipour can force its opponent out and procure a Special Attack boost. Hydro Pump is Simipour's main STAB move, and the extra Base Power is crucial for this set, as it does not sport solid coverage with its two offensive moves. Ice Beam finishes off the set, covering opposing Dragon- and Grass-type Pokemon that Simipour would otherwise struggle to defeat.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As this set greatly requires its Salac Berry to activate in order to be totally successful, Simipour needs to use Gluttony in order to attain the Speed boost easily. Surf is a viable alternative to Hydro Pump thanks to its far better accuracy, but keep in mind that the lack of coverage on this set makes it difficult to pass up the addition power. Hidden Power Grass can also be used to cover the Water-types that resist both of Simipour's attacking moves, but is very weak otherwise and Ice Beam provides more coverage overall.</p>

<p>As this set focuses on sweeping the opponent, entry hazards are really useful to help it wear down its checks and counters. Specifically, Stealth Rock is needed to attain the OHKO against Lickilicky with Hydro Pump and the 2HKO against Mantine with Ice Beam at +2. Camerupt pairs well with Simipour, as it can both set Stealth Rock and beat the Electric- and Grass-types that threaten it. Specially defensive walls and tanks often cause problems for Simipour, making strong Fighting-types, such as Gurdurr and Sawk, great options for partners to handle them. Finally, as Jynx has no troubles defeating this set, something to beat makes for a really nice partner. Defensively, Metang can handle Jynx relatively easily, while Charizard and Lum Berry Skuntank are both good offensive checks that can revenge kill it.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Hydro Pump
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Focus Blast / Surf
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Torrent
nature: Timid
EVs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>A Choice Scarf allows Simipour to serve as a very effective revenge killer, outspeeding some of the most common Choice Scarf users, such as Charizard and Primeape, and taking them out with ease. Hydro Pump is the STAB move of choice for Simipour, as a lack of boosting move or item means it needs all the power it can get. Ice Beam covers the Dragon- and Grass-types that resist its STAB, while Hidden Power Grass patches up Simipour's coverage and hits opposing Water-types. Focus Blast gives Simipour a way of denting most special walls and tanks, such as Lickilicky, Audino, and Regice, as well as hitting Jynx for solid damage. However, Surf can be used to give Simipour a more reliable STAB move to clean up with toward the end of the game.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Grass Knot can be used on the set to hit Mantine and Samurott harder than Hidden Power Grass, but its low Base Power against Gorebyss makes it less worthwhile, especially considering +2 Speed Gorebyss is still outsped by Choice Scarf Simipour. Hidden Power Electric can also be used over Hidden Power Grass to deal massive damage to Mantine and Pelipper, but Seismitoad is more common.</p>

<p>As this set is primarily a revenge killer and late-game cleaner, it has troubles beating many of the bulkier walls in the tier. Sawk, Primeape, Gurdurr, and other Fighting-types make good partners to beat most of them with ease. Similarly, Mandibuzz and Golbat can both be used as more defensive checks to the same Pokemon, as the combination of Taunt, Toxic, and reliable recovery can be used to break almost every wall in NU. Faster Choice Scarf users, such as Zebstrika and Tauros, can be problematic for teams using Simipour as their only way to revenge kill Pokemon. Having a nice defensive core with Pokemon such as Golem and Piloswine is a great way to handle them, while more offensive teams can utilize Kangaskhan to revenge kill them with its priority attacks.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Simipour's movepool is pretty extensive, but it makes the best of it in the above sets. One other option is a physical set with Substitute, Endeavor, Acrobatics, and Waterfall, as Water and Flying have good neutral coverage. The set can use Substitute until it has been brought down to a low amount of HP and take out an opposing wall to open up a sweep for a partner. Simipour can also use a mixed set with Work Up or a physical set with Hone Claws, but both are typically inferior to Nasty Plot. However, a mixed set with Acrobatics can be used to lure and defeat many specially defensive Pokemon, including Ludicolo and Roselia, to open the field for itself and other partners. With its great Speed, Simipour can utilize Rain Dance well for rain teams, and it can even take advantage of the rain itself. Other physical moves, such as Crunch, Superpower, Ice Punch, Rock Slide, and Shadow Claw, all might be appealing, but their relatively low Base Power or nasty side effects make special sets generally superior. Finally, Icy Wind and Scald can be used for their appealing secondary effects, but as a more offensive Pokemon, Simipour is better off utilizing its high Base Power attacks.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mantine is one of the best defensive checks to Simipour, as it takes little damage from most of Simipour's attacks, thanks to its high Special Defense and good typing. However, it should be wary of the rare Hidden Power Electric. Ludicolo is another solid check, thanks to its great defensive typing, and it can set up Rain Dance against Simipour and take it out with Giga Drain. Specially defensive Ludicolo also walls every set. Roselia can take an Ice Beam and either retaliate with a super effective Giga Drain or set up Spikes against Simipour. Other special walls and tanks, such as Lickilicky, Munchlax, Audino, and Regice, all handle each of Simipour's sets fairly easily thanks to their great special bulk. Jynx is a great offensive check to Simipour, as it is immune to Simipour's STAB and takes little damage from most of its coverage moves. Common Choice Scarf users, including Primeape, Rotom-A, and Tauros, can all revenge kill Simipour easily if it is not behind a Substitute. In general, faster Grass- and Electric-types, such as Electrode and Serperior, have few problems taking Simipour out, but they can both take massive damage from Choice Scarf variants. Finally, priority users, including Gurdurr, Skuntank, and Kangaskhan, can all take out Simipour easily, but Sucker Punch users need to watch out for Substitute.</p>