[Overview]

<p>With good Speed, power, and offensive typing, Simisear has the makings of an effective and fabulous sweeper. It is fast enough to outrun prominent threats such as Jynx, Haunter, Charizard, and Sawsbuck and has the movepool to nail most of them hard. To top it off, it has good mixed attacking stats as well as Nasty Plot, the latter of which allows it to stand out amongst the other Fire-types of NU. However, Simisear has a couple of traits that do cramp up its style. It is frail and has many exploitable weaknesses to Water, Ground, and Rock, all of which are common. Even though it has a less severe Stealth Rock weakness than Charizard, it still faces stiff competition from the "cliché dragon" due to the ape's lesser power, bulk, and movepool, most notably having no healing move to offset any damage taken. Simisear does boast the advantage of playing around Stealth Rock better than the its fellow fast Fire-types, Charizard and Rapidash, so if you want a Fire-type that has an easier time hopping in and out of battle while laying the hurt, give Simisear a try.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Fire Blast / Flamethrower
move 4: Focus Blast
item: Salac Berry
ability: Gluttony
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Like its fellow simians, Simisear aims to nab a boost from Nasty Plot and Salac Berry and sweep. One of the only Fire-types that can use its STAB well enough for sweeping purposes, Simisear aims to raze down all in its path in one fell swoop. Nasty Plot is its boosting move of choice, a selling point Simisear has over Charizard, which has no Special Attack-boosting option. Substitute is used to force Simisear into Salac Berry range without taking too much damage, and has the benefit of dodging Sucker Punch and preventing priority from stopping Simisear in the midst of its sweep, provided the Substitute remains intact beforehand. Focus Blast gets rid of pesky bulky Normal-types such as Licklicky, Audino, and Thick Fat Miltank while maintaining good coverage with Fire Blast in general, as few opponents resist both Fire and Fighting. Flamethrower can be used over Fire Blast so that a miss won't cost the sweep, but is less capable of OHKOing most foes after the +2 boost.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Having 4 HP EVs makes Simisear's max HP divisible by four, allowing it to activate Salac Berry with two uses of Substitute or one Substitute after Stealth Rock. Hidden Power Grass or Grass Knot can be used to get rid of Water-types, depending on whether Simisear wants reliable damage against all Water-types such as Gorebyss and Alomomola or slightly stronger hits on heavier Water-types such as Samurott and Seismitoad, but aren't too useful outside of that and Fire + Grass is resisted by Fire-types and Dragon-types. Simisear becomes crazy strong after the boosts, but its poor defensive typing and defenses means attaining them won't be easy. Partners should be able to provide Simisear the optimal setup and sweeping conditions. Gardevoir and Serperior provide dual screens support; Serperior manhandles bothersome Water-types and also tends to lure in weaker Pokemon such as Misdreavus and Metang (without Earthquake) that Simisear could set up on, while Gardevoir can use Memento to further weaken the opponent's attacks and allow Simisear to switch in for free. Stealth Rock support can help to secure important KOs, namely on Charizard, Samurott, and Mandibuzz, among others. Golem or Seismitoad not only set up Stealth Rock, but also lure in Grass-types for Simisear to set up on while covering up Simisear's weaknesses.</p>

<p>Priority users can still stop Simisear's sweep; Gurdurr can deal with the majority of priority users (namely Kangaskhan and Skuntank) and can smash Lickilicky easily, while Seismitoad can absorb Aqua Jet from Samurott and Carracosta. Special walls are an issue since this Simisear isn't meant for wallbreaking; wallbreakers are recommended partners to help deal with them lest Simisear's sweep be shortened. Sawk is a prime wallbreaker and lures Misdreavus's Will-O-Wisp which Simisear can switch into, whereas Eelektross provides a slow Volt Switch, can switch in Ground-types, lures in Grass-types, and is a wallbreaker with Superpower all in one. Simisear does not safely set up on very much, so Pokemon that can lure in Fire-weak Pokemon and have switching moves make great partners: U-turn Primeape, Baton Pass Sawsbuck, and Volt Switch Eelektross are such examples.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Fire Blast
move 2: Grass Knot
move 3: Superpower
move 4: Hidden Power Rock
item: Life Orb
ability: Blaze
nature: Hasty
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Immediately powerful and threatening, there are few Pokemon slower than mixed Simisear that can comfortably switch into and take its attacks. This Simisear either punches holes into the opponent mid-game or cleans up late-game. STAB Fire Blast threatens a lot of Pokemon such as Jynx, Tangela and Metang, and nets good coverage on the tier. Grass Knot trips up Water-, Rock-, and Ground-types, such as Seismitoad, Golurk, Golem, and Carracosta. Superpower nails the Rock / Steel types, Probopass and Bastiodon, as well as bulky Normal-types such as Lickilicky, Thick Fat Miltank and Thick Fat Munchlax, hard. Hidden Power Rock easily KOes Charizard and threatens Torkoal and Rapidash, while not leaving Simisear totally helpless against Altaria, Mantine, and Flareon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes offensive potential, with the remaining not dropped into HP to be able to switch into Stealth Rock at most 4 times if unscathed. Focus Blast could be used over Superpower, but Grass Knot is more useful and accurate against the majority of Rock-types while Superpower hits specially defensive Pokemon harder. Rock Slide could possibly be used over Hidden Power Rock, but Rock Slide only hits specially defensive Altaria and Flareon harder; Rock Slide can also miss, whereas Hidden Power Rock can guarantee an OHKO on Charizard and not do piddly against Torkoal. There maybe times where Grass Knot would not be sufficient in covering the majority of Water-types. Pokemon such as Serperior or Jynx can take advantage of said Water-types, while appreciating Simisear's hole punching capabilities to give themselves a chance to sweep. Electric-types can swiftly remove Water-types, Eelektross receiving a special mention due to its slow Volt Switch bringing Simisear in safely and make a solid wallbreaking core. Stealth Rock setters that can cover the majority of Simisear's weaknesses, such as Seismitoad (Water + Rock) or Torterra (Ground + Rock), make for excellent partners.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Choiced sets can be used since Simisear has less issues with Stealth Rock than Charizard and has the stats for the job, but that is pretty much the only advantage Choiced Simisear has over Choiced Charizard, the latter of which is stronger, has more coverage, and is immune to other hazards. Substitute + Endeavor can be used to lure and defeat bulky Pokemon that it could not otherwise, but Charizard's Swords Dance set pulls this concept off much better, and doesn't have to nearly sacrifice itself doing so. Simisear has an expansive physical movepool in Fire Punch, Crunch, and Acrobatics, but Crunch is the only notable one since it can nail specially bulky Psychic-types such as Grumpig, Hypno, and Gardevoir, while the rest are outclassed by its main options. Simisear can pull off a SunnyBeam set, but Solar Power Charizard exists alongside it, stealing the spotlight once again. Simisear has some disruptive options in Taunt, Will-O-Wisp, Amnesia, Yawn, Knock Off, and Covet, but is much too frail to make use of any of them.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Pokemon that resist Fire and aren't weak to its stronger attacks, namely Thick Fat Grumpig, Mantine, Altaria, Dragonair, Flareon, and Thick Fat Munchlax counter Simisear very well. Otherwise, Simisear can prove difficult to switch into, but is easy to revenge kill as its frailty is easily taken advantage of. Faster Pokemon such as Swellow, Tauros, Kadabra, and Scolipede can usually dispatch Simisear quickly, but most of them cannot do so after Simisear consumes its Salac Berry. Even then, priority, most notably Aqua Jet from Carracosta or Samurott, easily dents Simisear, as well as Kangaskhan's Fake Out or Gurdurr's Mach Punch, but do note that Simisear resists Ice Shard and Bullet Punch whereas Sucker Punch can be countered with a Substitute. Almost any Choice Scarf Pokemon can put the pressure on Simisear since their attacks tend to do a lot of damage to it. Sometimes it can be as simple as surviving Simisear's attack, then retaliating for usually significant damage. For example, Gorebyss and Alomomola do not take too much from Grass Knot, can survive unboosted Hidden Power Grass, and hit back hard with Water STAB. Most Water-types, especially the heavier ones, make risky responses to Simisear, but otherwise can take a Grass Knot or Hidden Power Grass and KO back; Pokemon such as Regirock and Piloswine also fall into this category. Simisear despises status, especially paralysis, so bulky Pokemon such as Body Slam Lickilicky, Munchlax or Miltank, and Thunder Wave Musharna can stop Simisear.</p>