[Overview]

<p>A few strange gimmick Pokemon have been made by Game Freak over the course of five generations of Pokemon: Castform was meant to showcase then-new weather moves and abilities, Unown was made to furnish the Ruins of Alph and create a mildly inconvenient form of code writing, Smeargle could learn every move but had pitiful stats with which to do so, and Plusle and Minun were Pikachu clones meant to represent double battles. At the very least, such Pokemon served a purpose, no matter how contrived. In comparison, Spinda seems extremely random, if you pardon the pun. It's a Pokemon with a variable sprite based on PID and... that's about it. Spinda is, to put it bluntly, a terrible Pokemon. No matter what it tries to do, it will always be held back by its abysmal stats, nearly matched by such fearsome monsters as Farfetch'd and Snorunt. For some strange reason, Game Freak had the urge to polish one of their turds and released Spinda in the Dream World with Superpower—a move Spinda literally cannot learn in any other way—to go with Contrary, allowing it to effectively gain a Bulk Up boost upon launching off a strong Fighting-type attack. Sadly, Game Freak paused the process and, evidently, forgot about it—Spinda cannot learn Superpower in BW2, which means that the surprisingly decent combination of Baton Pass, Rapid Spin, and Superpower remains illegal. In the meantime, Spinda remains a mangled mess, a useless piece of junk that nobody is ever meant to use, simply a remnant of Game Freak's caprice.</p>

[SET]
name: Attacker?
move 1: Double-Edge
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Sucker Punch
move 4: Trick Room
item: Life Orb
ability: Contrary
nature: Brave
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although this set might be dangerous in the hands of something with better stats, in the stubs of Spinda, it's barely threatening. After bravely switching Spinda in (hopefully on a Pokemon that has been hit by Memento and also uses Memento), use Trick Room to give Spinda a tiny chance to deal a bit of damage. Double-Edge is Spinda's strongest STAB move; our permanently disabled koala definitely needs any power it can get. Superpower, as previously mentioned, allows Spinda to raise its stats while firing off a moderately powerful attack that pairs well with its STAB. Sucker Punch is the second strongest priority move in the game and Spinda's strongest move against Ghost-types. Using it against a frail Pokemon that has already taken a Superpower might, hilariously enough, actually result in a KO for Spinda!</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>Spinda has a large number of options, yet almost all of them are, unsurprisingly, stuck in its Egg moves and therefore illegal with Superpower. As a result, the best moves Spinda has to offer include: Return, a safer but weaker alternative to Double-Edge; Drain Punch, which can be used over Trick Room to recover a bit of health in a pinch; Toxic, a move that every Pokemon learns to break down walls; and Substitute, which can protect Spinda from harmful status but not, unfortunately, equally harmful damage. Spinda can use Leftovers, but loses a great deal of its superpower without a Life Orb. Spinda needs as many entry hazards on the opponent's side of the field as it can get, so be sure to set up as many as possible with Pokemon like Cacturne and Garbodor to even entertain the possibility of a mythical Spinda sweep.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>It seems genuinely unfair that a Pokemon with such a rich list of Egg moves, including Rapid Spin, Wish, Baton Pass, Encore, and Disable, cannot use any due to illegalities. Without these moves, Spinda is stuck with little else. However, if you feel brave enough to use Spinda without Superpower, these Egg moves become legal, allowing Spinda to take advantage of being the sole user of both Baton Pass and Rapid Spin in the tier; it can also Baton Pass Calm Mind. Spinda's movepool is filled with random physical attacks such as Zen Headbutt, the elemental punches, and Wild Charge, but they all lack power and, more importantly, purpose. Teeter Dance is an option to make your opponent play recklessly by making him or her think that you are a terrible player.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Spinda cannot get past a single Ghost-type in the tier without Toxic; most have status moves and thus cannot be hit by any of Spinda's moves while switching in or by Sucker Punch. Whether the Ghost-type is Golurk or Shuppet, Spinda is not going to win against it. Most strong special attackers are able to take Spinda out in one fell swoop, especially as damage from Life Orb racks up; however, they must be aware of Sucker Punch. Physically defensive Pokemon, especially Tangela, Alomomola, and Shelgon, have little difficulty walling Spinda, even after one or two uses of Superpower. However, as Spinda begins to accumulate boosts, entertainingly enough, it becomes harder and harder to get rid of; previously solid Pokemon like those mentioned become easier and easier to KO with sufficient prior damage. Ironically, Superpower is, in itself, a cap on most of the power Spinda will ever hope to have. The move's pitiful 8 PP ensures that a Spinda that has had its sweep interrupted will not sweep again.</p>