[Overview]

<p>Stantler: a Normal-type Pokemon like the rest, but often outclassed. Its Attack stat lies at an average base 95, while its Speed and Special Attack stats are rather sub-par; however, it's still relatively fast for NU. Unfortunately, Stantler lacks the bulk other Normal-types, such as Kangaskhan and Miltank, possess. Thankfully, Stantler has a rather diverse movepool to take advantage of, including moves such as Megahorn, Earthquake, and Jump Kick, as well as two good abilities in Intimidate and Sap Sipper. Intimidate lets Stantler switch into most physical moves more easily, but Sap Sipper provides so many opportunities; Sap Sipper allows Stantler to switch in on Pokemon such as Tangela and Vileplume attempting to put something to sleep, boost its Attack, and threaten them with a powerful Megahorn or Return. Stantler's diverse movepool and Sap Sipper give it a niche many Normal-types of its kind wish they had, and it is sure to make a great addition to your team if you need a physical Normal-type that can plow through Tangela.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Return
move 2: Megahorn
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Bite / Jump Kick
item: Life Orb / Choice Band
ability: Sap Sipper
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is what Stantler does best: simple, all-out physical offense. Megahorn works great with Sap Sipper, as with the two, Stantler can effectively switch in on Grass-type moves from Pokemon such as Tangela and Exeggutor and KO them. Earthquake lets Stantler hit the ever-so-annoying Steel-types, such as Probopass and Bastiodon, that would otherwise stop it in its tracks. Bite is unfortunately Stantler's best bet against Ghost-types such as Misdreavus, while Jump Kick allows Stantler to hit Normal-types, most notably Miltank and Lickilicky, harder than any of its other moves. The choice between these two moves depends on whether you want Stantler to hit the aforementioned Normal-types harder, or if you want it to be able to finish off weakened Ghost-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Retaliate is a viable option over Return, especially with Choice Band, as it allows Stantler to effectively revenge kill the opponent with a 210 Base Power move if a teammate was KOed on the previous turn. Zen Headbutt can be used to hit Fighting-types for super effective damage, and the flinch rate can come in handy; however, its imperfect accuracy can be off-putting. Wild Charge is an option to hit Pokemon such as Mantine and Gorebyss harder, but beyond that it doesn't provide much more coverage. Though Sap Sipper is the preferred ability for this set, Intimidate can still be used to lower the opponent's Attack stat and soften certain physical moves. Psychic-types that can take care of Fighting-types effectively, such as Exeggutor, make great teammates for Stantler. Pokemon that draw out Grass-type moves, such as Carracosta and Regirock, can easily provide Stantler with an Attack boost. The same applies to physical attackers, such as Sawsbuck and Marowak, who are completely stopped by Tangela; Stantler can switch into and take out Tangela with ease.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Stantler has a few interesting moves it can use outside of what has already been mentioned. Stantler has three useful status moves it can use in the last slot, namely Thunder Wave, Hypnosis, and Toxic, all inflicting a useful status on the opponent; however, Hypnosis's low accuracy can be a little off-putting, and Stantler can also find it hard to use any of these three moves due to its frailty. Double-Edge and Sucker Punch are two options over Return and Bite, respectively, but using them comes with a price: they are illegal with Sap Sipper. It should also be noted that, though Double-Edge is more powerful than Return, the recoil damage suffered from using the move severely lowers Stantler's longevity, while Bite is only slightly less powerful but more reliable than Sucker Punch; overall, it is often not worth forgoing Sap Sipper. Energy Ball is an option to hit Pokemon such as Carracosta and Golem harder, who otherwise gives Stantler severe trouble. Running mixed or fully special sets and using either Work Up or Calm Mind to take advantage of Stantler's decent Special Attack are also options. Stantler has access to useful special moves such as Psychic, Shadow Ball, Thunderbolt, and Signal Beam, which will grant it the coverage it needs; however, it has no special STAB move other than the weak and unreliable Swift, Round, and Uproar. Additionally, a fully special set won't let it capitalize on Sap Sipper—one of Stantler's biggest draws—while a mixed set will greatly lower its offensive power, especially when you consider that Stantler's offensive stats are rather low for it to pose much of a threat with such a set.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Faster Pokemon are often the best answer to Stantler. Powerful threats such as Swellow and Sawk, as well as Choice Scarf Braviary and Rotom-A, can outspeed and easily dispatch Stantler. Ghost-types, such as Misdreavus and Haunter, can switch in on Return, Earthquake, Megahorn, and Jump Kick, and even take advantage of the recoil Stantler receives from Jump Kick's missing; however, Haunter must be careful switching in on both Bite and Megahorn, as it is really frail and can't take hits well at all. Protect users, such as Lickilicky and Glaceon, can effectively take advantage of Jump Kick's missing as well. Strong priority moves from Pokemon such as Skuntank, Golem, and Gurdurr will also make short work of Stantler. Bulky Fighting-types, such as Throh and Gurdurr, can easily take all of Stantler's attacks barring Zen Headbutt, while either can use the time given to set up or just outright KO it.</p>