[Overview]

<p>Stoutland is one of the premier dog Pokemon in Neverused. Unfortunately, this doesn't mean it's a good choice for a competitive team. With access to both Scrappy and Intimidate, one might think that it is a great Pokemon that can fit onto almost any team. The issue is that, while these are great abilities, Stoutland is severely outclassed by many of the other offensive Normal-types within the tier; most anything it can do, another Pokemon can do better. Kangaskhan, for example, generally outclasses Stoutland as a Scrappy-wielding offensive Normal-type, thanks to its slightly higher Speed coupled with priority moves in Fake Out and Sucker Punch. In addition, both Tauros and Granbull have access to Intimidate, pushing Stoutland even further into obscurity. Tauros is a lot better offensively thanks to its much greater Speed stat, and while Granbull might have lesser bulk than Stoutland, it makes up for it with access to many more support options. Truly, Stoutland's greatest niche is in Sand Rush, but due to the lack of permanent sand in NU, Stoutland is one of few Pokemon that functions better in OU than in NU. In the end, Stoutland isn't a top tier NU Pokemon, and it only has a couple of niches over typical Normal-types.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Attacker
move 1: Return
move 2: Crunch
move 3: Superpower
move 4: Thunder Wave / Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Intimidate 
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the best set Stoutland can run in NU that isn't severely outclassed by other Normal-types. Unfortunately, this set still isn't very good. Return hits most Pokemon in NU for decent damage, but it's still not that strong. Stoutland would appreciate the boosted power of Double Edge, but for some reason, our four-legged friend does not learn it. Crunch lets it hit Ghost-types, such as Drifblim, Golurk, and Haunter, while also providing super effective coverage against Psychic-types such as Gardevoir and Musharna. Superpower rounds out its coverage, hitting Rock- and Steel-types harder than any of its other moves. Unfortunately, many of the Pokemon you will want to hit with Superpower, such as Golem, Probopass, and Piloswine, are very bulky, so don't expect a very large damage output. The final slot typically depends upon the structure of your team. More offensive teams prefer Thunder Wave to help slow down opposing offensive threats, and Stoutland itself also enjoys the lowered Speed of its foes. More defensive teams, however, prefer Toxic as Speed is less important to them. Specifically, it can help to weaken physical walls such as Alomomola and Tangela, the likes of which Stoutland is completely unable to break.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An Adamant nature is chosen for this set because Speed is unimportant to it. While Scrappy may seem like a good option, it compromises Stoutland's ability to take hits and will once again make Stoutland function as an inferior Kangaskhan. Spikes-stacking teams might prefer for Stoutland to run Roar over one of the status moves listed in order to rack up residual damage on the opponent's team. Stoutland can be used on a Normal spam team alongside such partners as Kangaskhan, Tauros, and Zangoose. It also pairs well with bulky Psychic-types such as Musharna that can take powerful Fighting-type attacks from the likes of Sawk and Gurdurr. Ghost-types such as Misdreavus and Drifblim are also good ways to handle Sawk and Primeape. Because bulky Rock- and Ground-types give this set troubles, Stoutland enjoys offensive support from powerful special attackers such as Ludicolo, Mantine, and Samurott. Finally, sets without Toxic are hard walled by Alomomola, so it's a good idea to pair Stoutland with Grass-types such as Exeggutor and Roselia. Roselia in particular can set up Spikes to support the team and can also hit Tangela for great damage with a STAB Sludge Bomb.</p>


[Other Options]

<p>Though Stoutland doesn't have much else going for it, there are a few additional options that could be explored. Manual sand alongside Sand Rush sounds like a great idea, and while Stoutland hits hard enough with a Choice Band to consider its use, it's the only Pokemon in NU that benefits from manually set sand. This means you have to dedicate a significant amount of your team just to support one Pokemon which is even worse when you consider that Choice Band Stoutland isn't very good to begin with. Overall, you're better off not using a Sand Rush set. The elemental fangs can be used for niche coverage, but due to their low Base Power, you are generally better off using the coverage moves listed. Pursuit is a decent option, allowing Stoutland to trap unassuming Ghost- and Psychic-types switching out trying to avoid an attack. A defensive set with Rest, Sleep Talk, and Roar could be used; however, Munchlax usually runs this set better due to its great special bulk. Wild Charge can be used to hit Alomomola and other bulky Water-types for super effective damage, but be forewarned that it still won't do a lot of damage to Alomomola, scoring only a 5HKO at best after Leftovers recovery. Work Up is Stoutland's best boosting move, but considering its poor Special Attack stat, special movepool, and below average Speed, Stoutland doesn't utilize the move very well. Finally, a parashuffler set with Roar and Thunder Wave is probably the best alternative to the set listed above thanks to Stoutland's good bulk with investment and its access to Intimidate.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Gurdurr is the best check to Stoutland as it can take a Return with relative ease and recover with a STAB, super effective Drain Punch. Musharna is also a great defensive check because it takes 3 to 4 hits for Stoutland to KO it with Crunch. Even Toxic does not reliably handle Musharna since it can use Heal Bell while punishing Stoutland for poisoning it thanks to Synchonize. Mainly, anything with decent bulk and a reliable form of recovery can handle Stoutland well. Sawk serves as a great offensive check since the Choice Band set can OHKO Stoutland even after the Attack drop from Intimidate. The only thing Sawk really has to worry about is switching into a Thunder Wave. Strong special attackers, such as Samurott and Exeggutor, don't mind the Attack drop and can hit it rather hard. Braviary loves for Stoutland to switch into it as Defiant powers it up instead of dropping its power with Intimidate. Finally, almost any physically defensive Pokemon—Tangela, Alomomola, Shelgon, and Metang, to name a few—handles Stoutland well.</p>