[Overview]

<p>Sporting a colorful movepool and solid defensive stats, Swalot is an excellent candidate for a mixed wall in the NU tier. Its Poison typing grants Swalot a useful set of resistances, in particular to Fighting- and Grass-type attacks, and also the ability to remove any Toxic Spikes that may plague your team. Its access to Encore also prevents Swalot from becoming setup fodder. Unfortunately for Swalot, beyond absorbing Toxic Spikes and annoying the opponent with Yawn and Encore, it is unlikely to achieve much throughout the match, and a lack of reliable recovery often prevents it from sticking around for long. As a mono-Poison Pokemon, Swalot also faces competition from its rival purple sludge, Muk, who has better Special Defense and Attack, as well as a better offensive movepool.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Encore
move 2: Yawn / Toxic
move 3: Pain Split
move 4: Sludge Wave
item: Black Sludge
ability: Liquid Ooze
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Swalot aims to switch in on a Pokemon it walls, such as Sawk, and then proceed to force switches with Yawn and Encore, turning opposing Pokemon into setup fodder for your team by either putting them to sleep or locking them into an ineffective move. Encore and Yawn also help stop the opponent from using Swalot as a chance to set up themselves, though Toxic is an option over Yawn as a means of dealing some damage in exchange for a limited ability to force switches. Pain Split is the closest thing to a recovery move that Swalot has access to, and whilst it can also aid in weakening the foe, it is somewhat unreliable. Sludge Wave rounds out the set by providing a reasonably reliable and effective STAB attack in the relatively Steel-starved environment of NU. For this set to be at all useful, entry hazards are a necessity. Otherwise, forcing switches will be largely wasted and Swalot doesn't exactly do a whole lot else.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs maximize Swalot's physical walling potential, turning it into a decent answer to Sawk and Pinsir, capable of laughing off their STAB attacks and even passably handling their Earthquakes. However, if walling these Pokemon is not a priority, an alternate spread of 252 HP / 144 Def / 112 SpD is also viable to turn Swalot into a mixed wall; this serves to diminish Swalot's advantages over Muk though, namely a higher Defense stat. Ice Beam is an option over Sludge Wave in order to hit Ground-type switch-ins such as Golem harder, but Sludge Wave is generally the superior option. Liquid Ooze is a surprisingly effective ability, preventing SubSeeding attempts and turning Swalot into a superb switch-in for Giga Drain or Drain Punch users such as Tangela or Gurdurr.</p>

<p>Swalot should always be paired with powerful sweepers who can take advantage of the free turns Yawn and Encore provide. Pinsir is a superb choice as it can take Ground-type attacks for Swalot and KO the Psychics that threaten Swalot with a powerful STAB Megahorn. Pinsir also has the ability to set up Stealth Rock or prepare for a sweep with Swords Dance. Gorebyss is also a great choice, making up for a comparative lack of defensive synergy with sheer power after a single free turn and the ability to remove from play any Ground-types that threaten Swalot. As far as Spikes users go, it is hard to beat Cacturne as a partner as it is capable of KOing enemy Psychic-types with Sucker Punch, sponging Ground-type attacks, and even supplementing the chaos caused by Encore, whilst in return Swalot will greedily eat up all the Fighting-type attacks it lures in.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Swalot has a vast and entertaining movepool and is capable of pulling off many subpar alternatives. Curse and Stockpile are options to turn Swalot into a boosting wall, especially since Encore can help prevent phazing, but Swalot generally lacks the stats to pull these off effectively and the lack of reliable recovery really hurts their potential. A reasonable RestTalk set is possible if your team lacks a status absorber and has trouble with Toxic Spikes, but Swalot's low Speed and offensive stats, as well as the lack of a real phazing move really let this set down. As for additional options for the main set, Body Slam can replace Sludge Wave in order to spread paralysis over damage output, and Acid Spray is another possibility to encourage switching, but both are generally less reliable attacks. Swalot can also act as a decent weather inducer, setting up Sunny Day or Rain Dance while absorbing Toxic Spikes and then Exploding to quickly bring in a sweeper.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Thanks to the frustrating Yawn and Encore, it can be difficult to stop Swalot over multiple turns, so the best counters are Pokemon that can switch in with little fear and threaten an immediate KO. Powerful Psychic-types, such as Gardevoir, will have no trouble exploiting Swalot's generally low Special Defense and can easily deal massive damage. Since Yawn is the primary obstacle in countering Swalot, it comes as no surprise that Pokemon immune to sleep generally fare very well against it. Thanks to Vital Spirit, Vigoroth can come in with no fear of sleep and either Taunt Swalot and begin setting up or simply attack with Earthquake. Similarly, Hypno can scare off Swalot with Psychic and Magmar can simply deal massive damage with its powerful Fire-type attacks.</p>