[Overview]

<p>Togetic has been hard-pressed to find a good niche for itself outside of Baton Pass since its addition to the game in GSC. Sure, it had an above-average Defense stat and a great Special Defense stat, but its 55 base HP made it inferior to most special walls, so it was mainly used as a Baton Pass user. Now, with the introduction of Eviolite, Togetic has a reason to be used as a wall and can pass boosts more reliably than ever. Togetic's ability, Serene Grace, is another great weapon the egg bird has in its arsenal, although it does not have many moves that appreciate the Serene Grace boost. Unfortunately, Togetic's very low Speed, low offensive presence, and oddly shallow movepool hold it down.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Wall
move 1: Roost
move 2: Heal Bell
move 3: Toxic / Thunder Wave
move 4: Tri Attack / Encore
item: Eviolite
ability: Serene Grace
nature: Calm
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Probably Togetic's best and most effective set, Togetic's high Special Defense, heightened by Eviolite, allows it to take a wide range of special attacks with ease and fight back. The ever-reliable Roost is Togetic's main way of staying alive, as it misses out on Leftovers recovery. Another great support move that Togetic has is Heal Bell, making it essentially immune to Toxic; Heal Bell also lets Togetic cure the rest of the team from status, possibly giving an offensive threat another chance to sweep. The choice of status-inducing move is essentially personal preference. Toxic cripples everything that lacks Heal Bell and is not named Swellow or Roselia, whereas Thunder Wave can instantly shut down a sweeper such as Sawk. Tri Attack allows Togetic to actually deal damage and keeps Togetic from becoming Taunt bait. It is worth noting that Tri Attack has a 40% chance of burning, paralyzing, or freezing the opponent thanks to Serene Grace. You can, however, opt out of Tri Attack and use Encore to stop Pokemon that attempt to set up on Togetic, but you must be vary wary of Taunt. If you decide to use Encore instead of Tri Attack, it should be noted that Toxic should always be used over Thunder Wave so Togetic can at least deal some passive damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given nature and EV spread give Togetic raw defensive stats of 313 / 208 / 339. Factoring in Eviolite, the numbers soar to 313 / 312 / 508, giving Togetic absolutely incredible special bulk. Having an odd HP stat also allows Togetic to switch in to Stealth Rock 5 times. The combination of Roost and Heal Bell gives Togetic a great niche as a wall.</p>

<p>Thankfully, as a wall, Togetic does not require too much team support to do its job correctly, but it always appreciates it. Rapid Spin support from the likes of Armaldo and Torkoal aid Togetic tremendously by taking away its wing-clipping weakness to Stealth Rock. Hazard-setters, such as Cacturne and Garbador, will rack up damage on the opponent's special attackers when they can't break through Togetic. Toxic Spikes provided by Garbodor are especially helpful, as they save Togetic a turn that it would spend poisoning the opponent. Physical walls, such as Alomomola or Regirock, also make great teammates to Togetic, as they can take some physical hits from the likes of Swellow and Braviary. Speaking of Swellow and Braviary, they also make good teammates to Togetic as they can sweep easily after Togetic has stalled out other walls with Toxic. Dedicated Gorebyss checks, such as Specially Defensive Lapras, can be used as well to minimize the damage that can be caused by Gorebyss, who Shell Smashes somewhat easily on Togetic.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Nasty Plot
move 3: Roost
move 4: Hyper Voice / Thunder Wave
item: Eviolite
ability: Serene Grace
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Just like in DPP, Togetic is a usable Baton Pass user. As the only Pokemon in NU that can pass Nasty Plot boosts, Togetic has a notable niche in easily being able to quickly make special sweepers, such as Charizard, many times more frightening than they would be otherwise. With Togetic's bulk, Roost allows Togetic to gain another turn to set up a Nasty Plot. Hyper Voice is Togetic's strongest STAB move and deals a nice amount of damage after a Nasty Plot. Thunder Wave may leave you vulnerable to Taunt, but it still prevents other Pokemon from setting up against Togetic and gives it the small chance of a free Baton Pass to your recipient of choice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Since this set utilizes an EV and nature combination similar to the Special Wall set, Togetic certainly has the bulk to receive and pass boosts with relative ease. Besides the moves listed, Togetic can successfully use Substitute in the third or fourth moveslot in order to secure a safer Baton Pass to the recipient of your choosing. Stored Power can also be used if you feel that Togetic will have enough Nasty Plot boosts, whether they are from Togetic itself, or from teammates in a Baton Pass chain. Encore can be used if you want a sure-fire way to stop opponents that try to set up along with Togetic, as it gives it 3 turns to Nasty Plot, pass, and possibly set up a Substitute.</p>

<p>Of course, the biggest question with Baton Pass is: should I use a Baton Pass chain, or should I just use Togetic as a standalone Baton Pass user? While both options are equally viable, both have different teammates. If used on a Baton Pass chain, partners such as Ninjask and Mr. Mime are obvious to pass boosts from Speed Boost, Swords Dance, Substitute, Barrier, etc. While there are many choices for the final receiver, mixed sweepers, such as mixed Samurott or Huntail, are the best choices due to the physical and special attack boosts, thus benefiting their nice mixed attacking stats. If Togetic is the only Baton Pass user on your team, any special sweeper, such as Gorebyss, makes for a stellar recipient. Rapid Spin support from Armaldo or Torkoal is certainly useful, but it is not really needed for Baton Pass. Natu would instantly kill any hopes of a Baton Pass chain, but it can deflect entry hazards or Taunt aimed at Togetic, and Pursuit users, such as Skuntank, can also be used as a teammate to trap Taunt users who may keep Togetic from Baton Passing.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Unlike the majority Normal-types, it doesn't have many other moves to abuse. Togetic has access to both Light Screen and Reflect, but would have to hold Light Clay instead of Eviolite to make full use of a dual screens set. Togetic has access to both Extrasensory and Headbutt to abuse Serene Grace with, but the former does not get a STAB boost, and the latter comes off of a pitiful Attack stat. Running two attacks would mean that Togetic loses a crucial moveslot that could be used for better and more useful support moves. Togetic also has the ability to run a set with a more bulky offensive approach, with Nasty Plot, Roost, and two attacks, but the sets listed above are usually much better ways to abuse Togetic.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The biggest threat to Togetic is Taunt, as it forces Togetic to use Tri Attack or Hidden Power Flying for the next few turns. The Baton Pass set is highly susceptible to phazing moves, such as Roar and Whirlwind, but if users of these moves can be taken out or at least weakened before Togetic is forced to Baton Pass, it should not be a problem. Rock-types, such as Regirock and Golem, are able to laugh at anything Togetic can do, bar Toxic, and smash the little bird on its weaker defensive side with their STAB Rock-type moves. Ditto can copy the stat boosts and hit the Baton Pass receiver hard. Pokemon with Haze, such as Weezing and the rare Altaria, can also put a complete stop to the Baton Pass set.</p>