[Overview]

<p>Wailord's size does not translate into usefulness, especially in a metagame where Pokemon such as Jynx are so common. Its main selling point is the deadly Water Spout, which pairs with Choice Specs to become a weapon that crushes anything that doesn't resist it. While Water isn't the best type to spam with the prevalence of Water-immune Pokemon such as Jynx and Seismitoad, Wailord unfortunately has average at best power with its coverage moves. Despite its size, Wailord is not difficult to wear down, as its high HP is mitigated by its low defenses. Low Speed becomes the final nail in the coffin, as Wailord cannot outspeed most offensive teams without a lot of support.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Water Spout
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Hidden Power Bug / Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Surf / Hydro Pump
item: Choice Specs
nature: Modest
evs: 56 Def / 252 SpA / 60 SpD / 140 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Water Spout is Wailord's strongest move if it can maintain relatively high health; enhanced by Choice Specs, Water Spout can power through any Pokemon that doesn't resist it or have high special bulk. Ice Beam has excellent coverage alongside Wailord's Water-type STAB moves, hitting everything bar opposing Water-types for at least neutral damage. The choice of Hidden Power type depends on what threats the rest of your team has trouble handling. Hidden Power Bug allows Wailord to OHKO Jynx with Stealth Rock damage, and it also 2HKOes specially defensive Ludicolo after damage from Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes. Hidden Power Grass allows Wailord to damage most Water-types and is especially useful for damaging Water Absorb Seismitoad. Surf and Hydro Pump are reliable STAB moves for Wailord to use when its HP drops too low.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>140 Speed EVs allow Wailord to outspeed max Speed Adamant Golem, and its damage output is maximized with a Modest nature and maximum investment in Special Attack. The remaining EVs are allocated to its defenses to improve its overall durability better than by simply investing in its HP. Max Speed is a possibility in order to outspeed Misdreavus. Scald is a viable option instead of Surf or Hydro Pump, as its burn chance can rack up considerable chip damage on common switch-ins such as Lickilicky and Regice. Stealth Rock support is crucial to allow Wailord to OHKO Jynx with Hidden Power Bug; Ground-types such as Golem and Golurk are great teammates for this role, as they also provide an immunity to Electric-type moves. Spikes support is also useful, as a single layer works with Stealth Rock damage to allow Wailord to 2HKO specially defensive Ludicolo with Hidden Power Bug. Pokemon such as Roselia and Garbodor are excellent options as they also help absorb Toxic Spikes on your field, which can otherwise quickly drain Wailord's health. Both of these Pokemon also offer a much appreciated resistance to Grass-type moves. Grass- and Electric-types can deal with opposing Water-types that resist Wailord's STAB moves and Ice Beam. Fire-types such as Charizard and Torkoal are effective teammates to remove bulky Grass-types that resist Wailord's STAB moves and also form a Fire / Water / Grass core with it alongside a Grass-type teammate. Torkoal is also able to remove entry hazards from your field to maintain Wailord's HP. Paralysis support from teammates such as Musharna and Liepard is highly beneficial so that Wailord can outspeed a larger portion of the opponent's team. Rain support from Pokemon such as Volbeat and Electrode can be beneficial because it makes Water Spout immensely powerful, though this is most effective on a dedicated rain team.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Choice Scarf set is usable, but it lacks power and is outsped by nearly every other Choice Scarf user and positive Speed natured Pokemon with a base 115 or higher Speed. A dedicated Trick Room team can fit Wailord if it uses a Quiet nature, but Trick Room teams are generally gimmicks. A defensive set with Scald, Roar, Rest, and Sleep Talk is a possibility, but Wailord's poor defenses let it down. Toxic can catch specially bulky Pokemon, such as Regice, Lickilicky, and Audino, on the switch; unfortunately, these Pokemon tend to carry a move to deal with status such as Rest or Heal Bell. Wailord has a decent physical movepool with gems such as Waterfall, Earthquake, Heavy Slam, Body Slam, and Avalanche. Unfortunately, Wailord cannot physically power through Pokemon easily, and such sets are outclassed by faster and stronger Water-types such as Samurott and Floatzel. Curse can work with these physical moves, but it does nothing to patch Wailord's low Special Defense. Selfdestruct works as a last resort, but Wailord is still slow, and you are still better off using your Water STAB rather than sacrificing Wailord, as the difference in power is negligible. Amnesia can patch up Wailord's low Special Defense, but it does nothing for its Defense.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Water-type Pokemon wall Wailord if it lacks Hidden Power Grass, especially Water Absorb Seismitoad and Mantine, while Jynx and specially defensive Ludicolo wall Wailord if it lacks Hidden Power Bug. Specially defensive Pokemon, such as Lickilicky, Regice, and Audino, can take a couple of Water Spouts and cripple Wailord with status or simply retaliate and reduce Water Spout's power. However, they struggle to take Water Spout if Wailord is at maximum health, as it can 2HKO all three after Stealth Rock damage. Any Pokemon that is faster than Wailord can inflict large amounts of damage on it, forcing it to use Surf or Hydro Pump instead. Grass-types can switch in against Wailord's Water-type moves, but they must be wary of Ice Beam, which 2HKOes almost all of them.</p>