[Overview]

<p>Wartortle has access to the rare Rapid Spin and is arguably the best user of the move in NU, as Foresight allows it to spin even against Ghost-types. It has decent bulk allowing it to tank a few hits and is extremely useful on stall teams that need a spinner. However, Wartortle hardly finds use on offensive teams, as it slows the team down. Plus, offensive teams rarely see the need for a spinner. Furthermore, Wartortle's lack of recovery leaves it prone to being worn down and vulnerable to Toxic, meaning some team support is needed to allow it to shine.</p>

[SET]
name: Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Foresight
move 3: Scald
move 4: Toxic / Haze
item: Eviolite
ability: Torrent
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 172 Def / 88 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The almost unique combination of Foresight and Rapid Spin gives Wartortle the title of most reliable spinner in the tier. Scald is Wartortle's STAB move and gives it a chance to burn and cripple opposing physical attackers. With Scald, Wartortle can also beat entry hazard setters, such as Regirock and Golem, as well as spinning their entry hazards away. Toxic is used to cripple defensive threats, such as Musharna and Tangela. It also annoys and wears down offensive threats, such as Jynx and Ludicolo, on the switch. Meanwhile, Haze is another option to prevent Wartortle from being set up on.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Defense EVs on the set reach a jump point and allow Wartortle to take hits well from physical attackers, especially Golurk. The Special Defense EVs help it avoid a 2HKO from Life Orb Charizard's Hidden Power Grass. However, the EV spread is very flexible, and a specially defensive variant is equally viable if the team needs it. Wartortle is very vulnerable to being worn down, so teammates that can heal it or cure it from status are appreciated. Lickilicky and Audino are good teammates, as they can provide Wish support as well as cleric support, helping Wartortle regain HP and rid it of status and allowing it to shine on a stall team. Roselia can take Grass- and Electric-type moves for Wartortle, remove Toxic Spikes for it, and possibly provide cleric support with Aromatherapy. It can also provide Spikes and Toxic Spikes support, which stall teams need to have. On the set, Yawn can be used in place of Toxic and Haze to force switches, but it often clashes with Scald's burn chance. Seismic Toss is a good option to use as Wartortle's attacking move, as it can help break Substitutes and deal more damage. It also allows you to use Toxic more frequently, as there is no burn chance to interfere with it. While Torrent brings almost no benefit, it should be used because Rain Dish is illegal with Foresight, which is the primary reason to use Wartortle over Torkoal. Teammates that enjoy an entry hazard-free field appreciate the support that Wartortle provides. Charizard is a good example of this, as its 4x weakness to Stealth Rock is alleviated with Wartortle's support. They also share decent type synergy with one another.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Refresh can be used to heal Wartortle of Toxic status, but generally it is better to throw in cleric support. Mirror Coat and Counter can be used to surprise attackers if you can live a hit, although this is rather prediction-heavy. Additionally because Wartortle has much greater defenses with Eviolite than it does HP, the damage output from these moves will often be low. Surf is an option to use over Scald if you do not want Scald's burn chance to interfere with Toxic but want to keep the ability to hit the likes of Golem and Golurk hard. Rest can be used as it is Wartortle's only form of recovery, but Wartortle will be complete setup fodder while it tries to wake up. Rain Dance can be used if Wartortle is acting as a spinner for a rain team, but keep in mind that Wartortle can neither utilize Damp Rock due to its need for an Eviolite nor use Rain Dish with Foresight. Ice Beam allows Wartortle to break the Substitutes of Substitute + Bulk Up Braviary, which Seismic Toss fails to do, but it is generally too weak and Haze deals with this threat already. An offensive spinner set can be used with a set of Hydro Pump, Rapid Spin, Ice Beam, and either Toxic or Hidden Power Grass, but this is usually done better by Torkoal. Besides, Foresight and Rapid Spin should really be the reason to use Wartortle anyway, and it cannot beat Ghost-types as reliably without Foresight.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As Rapid Spin is Wartortle's main use, preventing it from spinning is one way of countering it. Misdreavus can use Taunt to prevent it from using Foresight, and offensive variants can subsequently obliterate it with Thunderbolt or set up Nasty Plot on it. However, Misdreavus can't prevent a Rapid Spin if it is hit by Foresight on the switch. Shedinja is a niche Pokemon, but it can avoid getting spun on even after Foresight thanks to Wonder Guard.</p>

<p>Once that is out of the way, it isn't difficult to counter Wartortle due to its pitiful offensive stats. If lacking Haze, Wartortle has trouble beating most Pokemon with a setup move, especially if they have Substitute. Klang can set up on Wartortle lacking Haze and is immune to Toxic. Braviary can set up Substitute and Bulk Up, and its Substitutes cannot even be broken by Seismic Toss. Taunt users can also beat Wartortle thanks to its weak offenses. Serperior can Taunt Wartortle and start to set up Calm Mind. Mandibuzz shakes off any damage with Roost and can Taunt Wartortle and cripple it with Toxic. Most special attackers, especially those with a super effective move, can beat Wartortle. For example, Roselia can threaten it out with Giga Drain while setting up entry hazards, and Roselia can heal itself if it gets burnt by switching out thanks to Natural Cure. LumRest Exeggutor doesn't mind status, can tank Wartortle's attacks with ease, and can hit it with Giga Drain. Rotom-S and Rotom-F can destroy Wartortle with Thunderbolt or cripple it by using Trick to take away its Eviolite.</p>