[Overview]

<p>Wynaut is one of the only viable trappers in NU, and although it faces competition from Gothorita, it is still very effective in clearing roadblocks for its teammates. Encore gives Wynaut a niche, granting teammates setup opportunities if it locks opponents into harmless moves. Wynaut is also able to quickly get rid of offensive Pokemon and defeat a wide range of foes that it avoids an OHKO from. However, its bulk is only decent at best, and unlike Gothorita, it cannot destroy stall teams and does not have the potential to sweep. It is also mostly a one-time use Pokemon, as it has no means of recovery without Wish support.</p>

[SET]
name: Why Not in NU?
move 1: Counter
move 2: Mirror Coat
move 3: Encore
move 4: Destiny Bond / Tickle
item: Eviolite
ability: Shadow Tag
nature: Bold
evs: 152 Def / 136 SpD / 220 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Wynaut's trapping abilities are showcased in this set. It can easily switch into and remove its target after a kill as long as it avoids the OHKO. This set is especially good at trapping Choice-locked Pokemon, as it does not need to predict against them. Counter and Mirror Coat allow Wynaut to take a hit and retaliate hard. However, remember that Ghost- and Dark-types are immune to Counter and Mirror Coat, respectively. Encore forces the opponent to repeat its move and thus reduces the need for prediction for Wynaut. It also punishes walls that use a harmless move by locking them into it and giving Wynaut's teammates a free opportunity to set up. Wynaut's low Speed makes this hard to pull off some of the time, but most walls are even slower. Encore also punishes the opponent for not attacking it directly. Destiny Bond eases prediction for Wynaut against mixed attackers, Substitute attackers, and opponents Wynaut cannot KO back with Counter or Mirror Coat. Tickle a cute option, and it works especially well with the support of a Pursuit trapper, giving Wynaut a reliable way to remove bulky walls that could prevent a teammate from sweeping.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs allow Wynaut to outspeed base 50 Speed Pokemon, such as Audino, Regirock, and Metang, and Encore them into non-attacking moves such as Heal Bell and Stealth Rock. The Defense EVs reach a jump point, an efficient level of EVs where Wynaut is granted an extra stat point for free, with the rest of the EVs thrown into Special Defense, allowing Wynaut to trap a greater range of offensive threats. Wynaut is best used on offensive teams, as it can easily remove their checks and counters. Hence, offensive partners of any kind are useful. Offensive teammates that have a setup move, such as Shell Smash Gorebyss and Swords Dance Scolipede, are especially great, as they can take advantage of Wynaut's Encore to set up. Pursuit trappers such as Skuntank and Sneasel are also great teammates if Wynaut is using Tickle, as they can trap opposing walls as they flee after Wynaut lowers their defenses.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Splash! No? Well, a Pokemon with eight moves doesn't have much else. Still, Safeguard can be used, giving Wynaut and its teammates status protection and being extremely effective with Encore. A Custap Berry with Destiny Bond can also be used to surprise the opponent, but the loss in bulk usually keeps Wynaut from doing its job effectively.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to Shadow Tag, Wynaut technically cannot be countered. Because the Wynaut user will typically have more control over what it wants to take out than you will, the best way to play around Wynaut is to save important Pokemon that can't beat it until after Wynaut has been knocked out. Aside from this, Pokemon with U-turn, Volt Switch, or Baton Pass can easily escape from the trap and switch into a Ghost- or Dark-type safely. Examples of such Pokemon are Swellow and Eelektross. Golurk and Drifblim counter Wynaut directly, as they can hit Wynaut with physical attacks without fear of Counter thanks to their Fighting immunity, while mixed Shiftry and Calm Mind Murkrow can hit Wynaut with special attacks and are immune to Mirror Coat. However, these Pokemon still have to watch out for Destiny Bond. Pokemon with Taunt, such as Mandibuzz, Golbat, and Serperior, can also shut Wynaut down. Afterwards, Mandibuzz and Golbat can stall out Wynaut with Toxic, and Serperior can simply set up Calm Mind against it.</p>