[Overview]

<p>Zebstrika stands out from most its its Electric-type brethren due to its particularly amazing Speed tier; it can outspeed Scolipede even without the aid of a Choice Scarf. It also has a great ability in Lightningrod and STAB Volt Switch to build momentum. Unfortunately, the good news ends here. Zebstrika's horrible physical movepool forces it to utilize its mediocre Special Attack to deal damage, so it is not very powerful. Zebstrika also faces stiff competition from various Electric-types in NU&mdash;Electabuzz, Raichu, Electrode, and Rotom-A all give it a major run for its money as a fast Electric-type scout. Nonetheless, focusing on Zebstrika's decent coverage and making use of its fantastic Speed will let it truly shine.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker 
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Volt Switch
move 3: Overheat
move 4: Hidden Power Grass
item: Life Orb
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Zebstrika functions best as an all-out attacker; it makes the most out of its high Speed and scouting ability, while Life Orb helps to patch up its lack of initial power. With its high Base Power and perfect accuracy, Thunderbolt is a great main STAB and cleaning tool. Volt Switch is great early- to mid-game and is perfect for revenge killing and predicting switches. Overheat is a handy tool that suits Zebstrika's great Speed extremely well, netting an OHKO on Scolipede, Jynx, and most Grass-types. Finally, Hidden Power Grass nails Seismitoad and Golem, two common Pokemon that would otherwise take Zebstrika's attacks with ease.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Expert Belt can be used to bluff a Choice set and net some surprise KOs, but otherwise, the extra power provided by Life Orb is preferred. Hidden Power Ice provides pseudo-BoltBeam coverage and can dent Altaria, but this is rather situational, and hitting Seismitoad and Golem is generally more important. Lastly, Sap Sipper can be used over Lightningrod to check Serperior much more easily, but that's about all it offers, and Zebstrika really enjoys the potential power boost and immunity to Volt Switch and Thunder Wave given by Lightningrod.</p>

<p>Entry hazards work well alongside Zebstrika's scouting ability and help it gain important KOs against certain Pokemon; Choice Specs Altaria, for example, is solidly 2HKOed by Thunderbolt after Stealth Rock, and maximum HP Seismitoad is OHKOed by Hidden Power Grass after one layer of Spikes. Speaking of Seismitoad, it makes a good partner for Zebstrika, as it can combat Ground-types which can be troublesome for Zebstrika to beat. Scolipede is a good partner for setting up Spikes on offensive teams, as it can break down special walls through the use of Swords Dance. Pokemon like Primeape and Swellow are also good partners, forming a solid VoltTurn core with Zebstrika. Finally, Water-types can defeat Ground-types for Zebstrika as well as luring in Electric-type moves for Zebstrika to absorb.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Overheat
move 4: Hidden Power Grass
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Modest
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Choice Scarf lets Zebstrika take on the role of a dedicated revenge killer. It gives up the useful power boost granted by Life Orb for the ability to check a wider variety of threats. While it might seem like a waste to put a Choice Scarf on something as fast as Zebstrika, its ridiculously high Speed when equipped with said item is actually its main selling point. Zebstrika can now outspeed and quickly dispose of Swellow, Choice Scarf Charizard, and even Scolipede at +1. Volt Switch is the main STAB on this set and is most likely the move you'll be using when you bring it in; due to Zebstrika being locked into one move and lacking power overall, Volt Switch is great for both revenge killing and getting it out in a pinch. That being said, Thunderbolt is another good Electric STAB when Volt Switch's power just doesn't cut it. Overheat and Hidden Power Grass provide the best coverage alongside Zebstrika's STABs, but be extremely cautious when using them, as they are both terrible moves to be locked into and should only be used in dire situations. Keep in mind that this set can't clean up as efficiently as the Life Orb set because of its measly unboosted Special Attack stat.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Modest nature is preferred, as Zebstrika is generally fast enough and needs as much power as it can get. Timid can be used to outspeed Timid Ludicolo and Victreebel in their respective weathers, but otherwise, Zebstrika should just stick with Modest. Hidden Power Ice gets the jump on boosting Dragon-types (after they are severely weakened), but doesn't do much else, and being locked into Hidden Power is a bad idea. Sap Sipper can be used to handle Serperior, but in most cases, Lightningrod is superior.</p>

<p>Fighting-types are good partners for Zebstrika, as they can break down special walls that Zebstrika has no chance of defeating. Primeape in particular can form a VoltTurn core with it. Ground-types are even more threatening to this set than others due to Zebstrika being locked into one move; Water-types are capable of beating them, and they can also lure Electric-type moves for Zebstrika to take advantage of.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Like most Electric-types, Zebstrika has a really barren movepool. Its Attack stat is higher than its Special Attack stat, but it has an absolutely horrible physical movepool to use it with. Likewise, Zebstrika can go mixed using Wild Charge over Thunderbolt, but this doesn't accomplish anything in the long run and splitting offenses is a bad idea on a Pokemon that's so offensively weak. Zebstrika can utilize Choice Specs over Life Orb, but it really likes being able to switch moves and hit hard at the same time. Pursuit can catch Haunter and Jynx on the switch, but it doesn't do much else and forces Zebstrika to forgo another move in lieu of it. Agility and Flame Charge can boost Zebstrika's Speed and attempt a sweep, but it is too easily walled to make this effective and to free up the moveslot must give up the utility of Volt Switch, one of its biggest selling points. Charge Beam can help patch up Zebstrika's mediocre Special Attack, but it is too frail to set up multiple Charge Beams and, again, must forgo Volt Switch. Zebstrika can better utilize Thunder with Rain Dance, and it can support rain sweepers with a fast Volt Switch, but rain weakens the power of Overheat and ends up doing more harm than good. Signal Beam can hurt Grass-types without lowering Zebstrika's Special Attack, but Overheat's greater power and ability to seriously damage Grass / Poison types is generally superior. Thunder Wave can cripple faster threats, but Zebstrika is too frail to use it effectively. Finally, Toxic does a number to most walls, but the most common special wall in the tier, Lickilicky, can heal it off with Heal Bell.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Zebstrika is pretty easy to counter due to its relatively low attacking power. Pretty much any special wall can force it out; Regice and Bastiodon are two examples of such. Lickilicky and Audino also perform very well against Zebstrika; they can take any attack with ease, Wish off the damage, and wear it down. Most Ground-types, such as Golurk and Piloswine, can comfortably tank one Life Orb-boosted Hidden Power Grass and OHKO with Earthquake. Camerupt is a particularly adept counter, as its typing allows it to take any of its attacks with ease. Bulky Dragon-types, such as Altaria, Dragonair, and Zweilous, can wall Zebstrika and either set up or phaze it out, though Altaria must watch out for Hidden Power Ice. Priority can also efficiently take down a weakened Zebstrika, examples being Kangaskhan's Fake Out and Sucker Punch combination and Gurdurr's Mach Punch. Overall, as long as you have something that can both take a hit and fire one back, you should be good to go against Zebstrika.</p>