[Overview]

<p>While Accelgor may seem outclassed as a suicide lead by Pokemon such as Forretress, Skarmory, and Froslass, which can either set up both Spikes and Stealth Rock or have Taunt to prevent set up, making them usually the better choices, Accelgor does have some interesting qualities that make it a viable pick in OU. Firstly, Accelgor's outstanding base 145 Speed allows it to outspeed every Pokemon in OU, making the process of Spikes-stacking much easier. Unlike other suicide Spikes leads, such as Skarmory and Forretress, Accelgor has no problem at all against Starmie, which it outspeeds and OHKOes. In addition, Accelgor can 2HKO Forretress and Donphan, two spinners that Forretress and Skarmory can't defeat. Furthermore, due to its outstanding Speed, no Pokemon other than those with Prankster can prevent Accelgor from setting up at least one layer of Spikes, while both Forretress and Skarmory can easily be outsped and rendered useless by Taunt. Accelgor also fares well against the two common users of Magic Bounce, Espeon and Xatu. Finally, Accelgor can make excellent use of Final Gambit, enabling it to dent or KO a Pokemon of its choice when at full HP, which separates it from Froslass. While Accelgor might seem like an unnecessary choice in this metagame, it can pull off a specific niche of Spikes-stacking very well, and it will not disappoint if used properly.</p>

[SET]
name: Spikes
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Bug Buzz
move 3: Final Gambit
move 4: Focus Blast / Yawn
item: Focus Sash
ability: Unburden
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 88 HP / 232 SpA / 188 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Accelgor is best suited as a suicide Spikes lead in the OU metagame. With its blazing Speed, Accelgor can guarantee at least one layer of Spikes on the opposing team's field. Thanks to its Bug STAB, access to Focus Blast, and decent Special Attack stat, Accelgor can also dispose of spinners such as Starmie, Forretress, and Donphan, as well as Magic Bounce users. Finally, Accelgor can prevent spinners from removing Spikes from the field thanks to Final Gambit while also preventing opposing leads from fulfilling their own roles.</p>

<p>Spikes is the focus of this set, as it aids offensive teammates in KOing their targets while also punishing switches. Accelgor doesn't have to worry about Xatu and Espeon bouncing back its entry hazards as much as other Spikes users, due to its STAB Bug Buzz, which 2HKOs both. Final Gambit is a great last-resort move to turn to when Accelgor wants to prevent the opponent from using Rapid Spin against it, OHKO threatening setup sweepers if Accelgor is at full life, or provide a free switch into one of Accelgor's teammates. Focus Blast provides a powerful coverage move, hitting Rock- and Steel-types for super effective damage, allowing Accelgor to 2HKO Terrakion with Focus Blast + Bug Buzz, 2HKO lead Forretress with Bug Buzz + Focus Blast without activating Custap Berry, and 2HKO 252 HP Forretress 75.39% of the time. Yawn, on the other hand, helps force switches to rack up Spikes damage, and is the only way that Accelgor has to prevent setup if it doesn't want to sacrifice itself. It also allows it to force out spinners that it can't beat, such as Tentacruel and specially defensive Forretress, and helps in dealing with Substitute users.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>188 Speed EVs allow Accelgor to outspeed Alakazam and Dugtrio, two of the fastest Pokemon in OU. The given HP EVs raise Accelgor's HP stat to 323, allowing it to OHKO Keldeo, Terrakion, and Dragonite with Final Gambit at full HP. 232 Special Attack EVs combined with a Modest nature allow Accelgor to always 2HKO Xatu with Bug Buzz and 2HKO Terrakion with Focus Blast + Bug Buzz. Having Focus Sash on Accelgor is mandatory, as it guarantees at least one layer of Spikes, and pairs well with Accelgor's ability, Unburden, which doubles its Speed when the Focus Sash breaks, which prevents Accelgor from being outpaced by Choice Scarf users and allows it to pull off one more move.</p>

<p>Lum Berry is a valid option, as it can heal any status Accelgor might be inflicted with, specifically sleep from Pokemon such as Breloom and Amoonguss. Hidden Power Ice, Fire, or Rock can be used to check Dragon-types, Forretress, and Gyarados, respectively. A Timid nature alongside an EV spread of 120 HP / 252 SpA / 136 Spe EV can be used to let Accelgor outspeed Jolteon, +1 Gyarados, and +1 Dragonite, while the Special Attack investment gives Accelgor a 70% chance to 2HKO Xatu with Bug Buzz. The rest is thrown into HP to increase Final Gambit's power and guarantee the OHKO on Keldeo, Dragonite, and Terrakion if Accelgor is at full life.</p>

<p>This set should be used on hyper offensive teams due to the offensive pressure it provides with Spikes, making threatening offensive Pokemon the best partners. For example, Terrakion and Latios are good partners for Accelgor because they benefit from having entry hazards up to aid their sweeping. A spinblocker is also a good ally, as it can prevent a Rapid Spin user from removing Accelgor's Spikes. Gengar is a great offensive spinblocker and fits well on hyper offensive teams. Gothitelle in particular is a great partner to Accelgor, as it can defeat Tentacruel, one of the only spinners Accelgor can't defeat due to its bulk and resistance to Bug Buzz.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Accelgor's movepool is extremely limited, so it has very little to offer outside of the role of Spikes lead. However, Accelgor can make good use of its alternative ability, Hydration. In rain, Accelgor is able to heal off any damage with Rest, and Hydration will get rid of any statuses, increasing its lifespan. It also does well against walls that don't hit very hard, such as specially defensive Jirachi. However, Accelgor's inherent flimsiness doesn't allow it the time to actually last long enough in a match. A set with a Life Orb and U-turn is a viable option, as it turns Accelgor into a late-game sweeper and doesn't require any setup while displaying versatility in move selection. Recover is an interesting option to use, healing Accelgor when necessary and pairing well with Final Gambit. However, Accelgor doesn't often have time to use Recover, preferring to just set up Spikes. Finally, Baton Pass can be utilized to pass Agility boosts to slower teammates.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Accelgor's pitiful defenses allow it to be easily KOed. Powerful priority attackers, such as Scizor, can 2HKO Accelgor and limit it to only one layer of Spikes. Accelgor often finds itself as setup bait for many Pokemon wielding Substitute, as they can block Final Gambit. However, Accelgor can get past them if it carries Yawn. Choice Band Tyranitar can OHKO Accelgor through its Focus Sash thanks to the damage from sandstorm. Tentacruel is one of the few Rapid Spin users that Accelgor can't directly threaten; however, the presence of Final Gambit prevents Tentacruel from using Rapid Spin freely. Sableye deserves a mention as well, as it hard counters Accelgor with a priority Taunt while also being immune to Final Gambit. Any Choice Scarf user that can outspeed Accelgor will 2HKO it and limit it to only one layer of Spikes; however, the Choice Scarf Pokemon will become setup bait after it kills Accelgor and most probably will give a free turn to one of Accelgor's teammates.</p>