[Overview]

<p>Alakazam has had an interesting run throughout the generations, but rest assured, his place in OU this generation is as stable as his mustache is amazing. Alakazam has always had amazing Speed and Special Attack, but he received a boon with his new Dream World ability: Magic Guard. With this new ability, Alakazam has turned into one of the best revenge killers in the tier, and is a threat every team must account for. Not all is bright and peachy for Alakazam however, as the new generation did nothing to improve his pitiful bulk and shallow movepool. In addition, it often struggles breaking past some of the most common Pokemon in OU, especially Scizor and bulky Steel-types. Despite these flaws, one thing is for sure&mdash;all male Jellicent are incredibly jealous of Alakazam's great mustache.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Psyshock / Psychic
move 2: Focus Blast
move 3: Signal Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Fire / Substitute
item: Focus Sash / Life Orb
ability: Magic Guard
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Alakazam only needs one set to wreak havoc, and here it is. With high Speed, impeccable coverage, and Special Attack higher than that of Latios, Alakazam is a struggle to face. The choice between Focus Sash and Life Orb is critical; while the combination of Magic Guard and Focus Sash makes Alakazam a premier revenge killer, Life Orb allows Alakazam to hit like a truck without fearing recoil. Focus Sash is particularly useful, as it will always take two separate hits to take him down. It is important that you choose the item that fits your team, as the item chosen determines Alakazam's function.</p>

<p>The eternal choice between Psyshock and Psychic comes down to personal preference. Psyshock is recommended as it is a useful way to get through special walls such as Chansey and Blissey. Psychic, on the other hand, is able to hit Pokemon such as Rotom-W and Gliscor slightly harder. However, Psychic does fail to OHKO Terrakion in sandstorm, unlike Psyshock, which OHKOes regardless of the weather. Focus Blast allows Alakazam to hit Pokemon that would otherwise wall him, such as Tyranitar. It is important to note that even while holding a Choice Scarf, Tyranitar is still slower than Alakazam and will be OHKOed by Focus Blast. Signal Beam provides important coverage against other Psychic-type threats, such as Latios, Latias, and most especially Celebi. The last move comes down to personal preference. Hidden Power Ice allows Alakazam to effectively revenge kill Dragon-types, while Hidden Power Fire is useful to hit Steel-types that are not weak to Focus Blast, such as Scizor. Substitute can be used over a Hidden Power, as it eases prediction significantly and provides Alakazam a form of protection against other revenge killers. However, be warned that using Substitute in tandem with Focus Sash will make it much less useful, and the lack of extra coverage can be detrimental as a revenge killer.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs recommended are fairly straightforward, maximizing Alakazam's Speed and Special Attack to make it a formidable foe. While a Modest nature may be tempting, a Timid nature is strongly suggested. It ensures that Alakazam outpaces Pokemon between 339 and 371 Speed, such as Terrakion and Choice Scarf Tyranitar, and ties opposing Alakazam and Dugtrio at worst. There is almost no reason to invest in bulk as with his pitiful defenses, Alakazam is more or less going to be brought down to his Focus Sash regardless of investment. Alakazam can use Calm Mind as his fourth move if a Hidden Power or Substitute don't suit your fancy. If you do decide to run Calm Mind, do keep in mind (heh) that Alakazam is not aiming to take a hit in order to set up, but instead, it is aiming to switch into something it will scare out, and thus allow itself to set up a Calm Mind.</p>

<p>Alakazam is best suited to offensive teams requiring an offensive revenge killer. Alakazam, like all other offensive Pokemon, appreciates entry hazard support to weaken opponents. As such, Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Forretress, and Skarmory are good teammates as both are capable of setting of Spikes. Alakazam will naturally draw out Pokemon such as Jirachi and Scizor, so it is important to have teammates that can capitalize on these Pokemon. Magnezone is the obvious choice, as it is able to trap both Pokemon and properly dispose of them, while Skarmory can set Spikes up on both.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>Alakazam receives the always-nifty Encore, providing a chance for one of his teammates to set up. He can also use Choice Specs for greater immediate power, but Focus Sash's additional attack or Life Orb's freedom are generally superior. A Flame Orb + Trick set is usable, but Alakazam is better off just firing off attacks than relying on nonexistent bulk. Thunder Wave is a good alternative for crippling the opponent's Pokemon, and Energy Ball is useful for being able to OHKO Gastrodon and Quagsire, who would otherwise be annoying because of their bulk. Charge Beam can be used to finish off weakened foes and to get the occasional Special Attack boost, but the lack of coverage and power is a major drawback.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Alakazam's biggest enemies are those he cannot 2HKO. Pokemon such as Jirachi and Metagross can take any two attacks from Alakazam and proceed to KO him. Scizor is a good check provided Alakazam lacks Hidden Power Fire. Multiple-hit moves, such as Icicle Spear and Rock Blast, are a good way to handle Alakazam, as those moves KO Alakazam through his Focus Sash. Jolteon's higher Speed makes Alakazam's mustache tremble in fear, as do most Choice Scarf users. Weavile not only outspeeds Alakazam, but can also trap him with Pursuit, KOing Alakazam even if he stays in. Sableye and Spiritomb are two Pokemon that can reliably beat Alakazam, due to their immunities to Alakazam's STAB and second-strongest attack, Focus Blast.</p>