[Overview]

<p>Bearing the grand title of The Being of Willpower, Azelf does not disappoint. Its offensive stats are fantastic; base 125 in both Attack and Special Attack is nothing to be taken lightly. Azelf is also blessed with a blazing base 115 Speed, outspeeding most of the OU tier. Azelf also has a very wide movepool, which allows it to fill a variety of roles, granting it the ability to fit on a variety of teams. It doesn't end there; Azelf also is known as one of the best dual screeners in OU, having access to both Stealth Rock and Taunt, which combine to earn Azelf a spot as a respectable lead.</p>

<p>However, at the end of the day, Azelf doesn't come without flaws. While Azelf can play many roles, Team Preview makes it painfully obvious what role Azelf plays on a team. Azelf also has pitiful defenses; it can rarely absorb more than two hits. Nothing has changed for Azelf in the transition to BW2; Pokemon such as Espeon have traits that are more in-demand, giving Azelf major competition in the OU environment. Nonetheless, Azelf is a powerful threat and should be treated as such, as underestimating it will cause you to regret it.</p>

[SET] 
name: Suicide Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Fire Blast
item: Focus Sash
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Azelf was a very popular lead in DPP, and while it isn't as common as it was then, it's still a successful set today. The goal of this set is to set up Stealth Rock on the field while preventing the opponent from doing the same. With the help of Taunt and attacking moves, this set is very effective against other common leads, such as Ferrothorn, Forretress, and Skarmory. Thunderbolt provides excellent coverage, especially against Xatu, whose ability Magic Guard foils Azelf's plan to set up Stealth Rock. It also deals heavy damage to Starmie and Tentacruel. Fire Blast rounds out Azelf's coverage, hitting Steel-types very hard and allowing Azelf to handle opposing leads that are immune to Thunderbolt, such as Landorus-T.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>Focus Sash grants Azelf the ability to survive a hit so it can lay Stealth Rock reliably. Having a Timid nature is almost mandatory, as it maximizes the most crucial aspect of this set: Speed. 252 EVs in Special Attack allow Azelf to make use of its stellar offenses. There aren't many other options for this set, as it is pretty straightfoward. Pokemon that possess the ability Magic Bounce are by far the biggest threats to this set. Espeon in particular can not only reflect Azelf's support moves but also take all of Azelf's attacks, healing off any damage with Morning Sun or Wish. For this reason, Volcarona is a good ally for Azelf, as it can easily get rid of Espeon. Rotom-W is a great partner as well; it can deal with Cloyster, a Pokemon that can break through Azelf's Focus Sash with its ability Skill Link. However, Azelf outspeeds Cloyster and can OHKO it with Thunderbolt, so it's not that big of a threat.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Taunt
move 4: Stealth Rock / U-turn / Explosion
item: Light Clay
nature: Timid / Jolly
evs: 168 HP / 88 Def / 252 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Azelf's outstanding Speed and access to very useful support moves, it can run an effective dual screen set. Despite Azelf's subpar defenses, it still has the potential to get a screen or two up to aid its teammates. Reflect and Light Screen allow a fellow teammate to set up or sweep and make taking powerful hits much easier. Taunt is what makes Azelf stand out from other dual screen users, as it prevents setup sweepers from setting up against Azelf and stops opposing leads in their tracks. The final moveslot depends on preference. Usually, Azelf is unable to set up both screens and Stealth Rock. However, as both screens are not always necessary, Azelf can set the appropriate screen and proceed to set up Stealth Rock if it has the time. U-turn can be used to gain momentum when you sense danger, while Explosion gives a free switch-in to a teammate, though it should only be used after screens are up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Light Clay is an invaluable item for this set, as it increases the duration of the screens. The given EV spread gives Azelf as much bulk as possible, preventing Choice Band Tyranitar's Crunch from OHKOing through Reflect, even after sand damage. The Speed EVs allow Azelf to set up dual screens as quickly as possible. Explosion can be used in place of Taunt in the third moveslot, as it pairs well with Stealth Rock, always preventing slower spinners from removing Stealth Rock and stopping Starmie 50% of the time. To reduce confusion recoil, Timid is the best option as a nature if Azelf doesn't run any attacking moves; however, Jolly is the better choice if U-turn or Explosion is used. Flamethrower could be used to handle Scizor, as it would otherwise limit Azelf to one screen. Signal Beam is also an option to hit Celebi and Tyranitar.</p>

<p>This variant of Azelf works very well on hyper offense teams, so having setup sweepers that benefit from having screens up are useful. Pokemon such as Swords Dance Scizor or Terrakion and Dragon Dance Salamence can take advantage of the dual screens. Volcarona and Cloyster as teammates deserve special mention as they benefit from Azelf's Taunt; they can set up with ease if Azelf can prevent Stealth Rock from going up on the field. Other than the threats stated above, this set has trouble with the same Pokemon that trouble suicide lead Azelf.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Psyshock / Psychic
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Hidden Power Fighting / Grass Knot
item: Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Azelf is more than capable of running an all-out attacking set with its above-average offenses and Speed. This set is great for weakening opponents late-game and can tackle a variety of Pokemon thanks to its great coverage. U-turn is useful for gaining momentum and scouting. Psyshock is the superior STAB option for Azelf, as it can hit special walls, such as Blissey and Chansey, hard. However, Psychic sports more power and a chance to lower the foe's Special Defense. Fire Blast provides coverage against Steel-types Azelf would normally have issues with. The final moveslot is based on what threats trouble your team; if you struggle with Heatran or Tyranitar, Hidden Power Fighting is the ideal choice. If you have difficulties defeating Starmie or Gastrodon, Grass Knot is a better option.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>Life Orb gives Azelf the needed power to break through walls. A Timid nature is used to maximize Azelf's Speed, and EVs are invested fully in Special Attack and Speed. Lum Berry is a possible option because it gets rid of any crippling status Azelf might be afflicted with. However, Azelf's power is significantly decreased by the loss of Life Orb. Nasty Plot is an option for the first moveslot; it boosts Azelf's Special Attack stat to amazing heights and helps Azelf perform well against stall teams and defensive cores. However, due to Azelf's lackluster defenses, it rarely obtains an opportunity to set up, making Nasty Plot not as reliable. If you don't fancy Fire Blast's accuracy, Flamethrower can be used in its place. The power drop is easily noticed, however. Shadow Ball can be used; it allows Azelf to handle Pokemon such as Latias, Starmie, and Espeon much more easily. Energy Ball can replace Grass Knot, thanks to its greater consistency and chance to occasionally drop Special Defense.</p> 

<p>Azelf does not need much team support since its vast variety of coverage moves allow it to manage itself on its own. That being said, the biggest threats to this set&mdash;and Azelf in general&mdash;are Reuniclus, Latios, and Latias. They can wall all of Azelf's attacks and Recover off any excess damage. Swords Dance Scizor is a great partner to Azelf due to the fact that Scizor can check all three of these Pokemon with Bug Bite. If either of the Eon twins carry Hidden Power Fire, Heatran can be a good partner in addition to Scizor, forming a core with defensive synergy that greatly aids Azelf.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Due to Azelf's wide movepool, it has lots of options to choose from. A Calm Mind set is viable, though Azelf's frailness doesn't give it many chances to even set up Calm Mind. Azelf can also be paired with Politoed to utilize Thunder. Choice Specs is also an option for Azelf, but the Special Attacker set already accomplishes what a Choice Specs set would have without being locked into a move. Since Azelf has great selections for physical attacking moves, such as Zen Headbutt and Fire Punch, a Choice Band set could be used to utilize that. Finally, Azelf learns many useful support moves, such as Thunder Wave and Toxic, giving it the option to play a supporting role. However, Azelf's defenses once again hold it back from successfully pulling off such a set.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Azelf's poor defenses are its ultimate downfall, so KOing it isn't too difficult. Pokemon with priority moves can KO Azelf before it gets the chance to strike back. Choice Band Scizor, for example, can easily defeat Azelf with Bullet Punch. Scizor also has access to Pursuit, as does Tyranitar, both of which can prevent Azelf from switching out safely and finish it off with their STAB moves. However, the former must be wary of Fire Blast, and the latter must watch out for Hidden Power Fighting. Status inflictions, such as paralysis, can stop Azelf from achieving most of its goals. Jirachi and Prankster Whimsicott can easily paralyze Azelf. Jellicent and specially defensive Heatran can wall Azelf. However, they must be very careful of Grass Knot and Hidden Power Fighting, respectively. Reuniclus, Latios, and Latias can also wall Azelf easily if Azelf doesn't carry Shadow Ball. Latios and Latias are great switch-ins to Azelf, though a Life Orb U-turn severely dents both of them. Overall, Azelf's large selection of coverage moves make it difficult to counter, but if you can identify Azelf's moveset, defeating it isn't a difficult task.</p>