[Overview]

<p>While Chansey was once completely outclassed by her older sister Blissey, Eviolite has transformed her into one of the most bulky Pokemon in the entire game. Eviolite boosts both of Chansey's defensive stats by 50%, making her a fantastic mixed wall. The only downside to holding Eviolite is that it forces Chansey to lose out on precious Leftovers recovery; however, this is essentially a non-issue, as with an efficient EV spread, Chansey is still able to take hits better than Blissey ever could. As if all this weren't enough, Chansey is able to act as an amazing team supporter thanks to Wish's new mechanic, which heals teammates with 50% of the user's max HP. Since Chansey's HP stat is tremendous, she can pass massive 352 HP Wishes to any Pokemon on her team, keeping them completely healthy throughout the duration of the match.</p>

<p>However, it isn't all good news for the Egg Pokemon. Chansey is still severely hindered by her downright-terrible base 35 Special Attack stat, forcing her to rely upon Seismic Toss and Toxic to deal damage to opposing Pokemon. This means that Ghost-types with Substitute, especially the ever-dangerous Gengar, will be a tremendous problem for her to take on (and to a lesser extent, Pokemon who can utilize 101 HP Substitutes). Additionally, while Chansey is ridiculously bulky, physical STAB Fighting-type attacks, such as Terrakion's Close Combat, will still take her down in a flash. Overall, Chansey is an amazingly bulky wall who can take almost any attack thrown at her with aplomb, so you should utilize her as such.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Softboiled / Wish
move 2: Aromatherapy / Protect
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Seismic Toss
item: Eviolite
ability: Natural Cure
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

<p>Chansey is a great option if your team is in need of a cleric or Wish passer. This is mainly due to Chansey's incredible bulk, allowing her to tank nearly any special attack, and a lot of unboosted physical attacks. This set is often compared to Blissey, who is less bulky but has the advantage of being viable on sand and hail stall teams as well as a usable Special Attack stat. However, on rain and sun stall teams, Chansey is the better choice thanks to her superior bulk.</p>

<p>Softboiled keeps Chansey healthy throughout the match, as without Leftovers recovery, Chansey gets worn down pretty easily by residual damage in the form of entry hazards, sand, hail, and repeated attacks. Aromatherapy allows Chansey to heal her teammates and prevents Chansey from being Toxic stalled, allowing Chansey to further support the team. Aromatherapy should be used in conjunction with Softboiled. However, Chansey is also a very viable Wish passer thanks to her incredible HP stat. Protect should be used instead of Aromatherapy if you plan to use Wish with Chansey, as it allows Chansey to heal herself and scout out the opponent. Wish allows Chansey to fully heal many Pokemon regardless of whether they invest in HP themselves thanks to Chansey's incredible HP stat. Toxic allows Chansey to wear down the opponent, and is Chansey's main way of damaging the opponent. Seismic Toss prevents Chansey from becoming complete setup bait by sweepers (especially most Substitute users trying to avoid Toxic), and allows her to reliably damage the opposition without worrying about her low offenses.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs have been heavily invested in both HP and physical defense, making Chansey one of the best mixed walls in the tier. Investing into physical defense also means that Alakazam and Latios have no chance in getting past Chansey with Psyshock, as well as always avoiding the 2HKO from Hydreigon's Superpower. Wish can be paired with Softboiled to reduce Chansey's dependence on receiving her own Wish, but Protect is generally better, as it allows you to scout your opponent and Toxic stall. Thunder Wave is an option to better deal with fast sweepers such as Venusaur while also statusing Fighting-types such as Lucario and Terrakion on the switch. Chansey can also use Stealth Rock, as Chansey forces a lot of switches pretty nicely. Stealth Rock also allows you to stall out Gengar, which can often be troubling for Chansey.</p>

<p>Chansey functions well on stall and other defensive teams that appreciate Chansey's ability to heal her teammates from status. Politoed is a great partner, as Politoed prevents sand and hail damage from wearing down Chansey, while Chansey heals Politoed of any kind of status. Latias also has great synergy with Chansey, as it takes on Fighting-type attackers such as Breloom and Keldeo, both of which can easily muscle through Chansey. Pairing Skarmory up with Chansey creates a very neat core, though this core has become less effective this generation thanks to mixed attackers such as Keldeo, Infernape, Hydreigon, and Kyurem-B. Dragonite is a very viable tank on rain teams, as with Multiscale and Dragon Tail it can wall just about any special attacker that Chansey can't, such as Reuniclus, Keldeo, and Jirachi. Bulky Grass-types such as Tangrowth and Ferrothorn are great partners for Chansey, mainly because they can easily switch into physical attacks, set up entry hazards, and force switches with Sleep Powder and Leech Seed, respectively. Be careful when using both Ferrothorn and Chansey together, as they do share a Fighting-type weakness.</p>

<p>Chansey also functions really well on sun stall teams. Ninetales really likes Chansey's ability to switch into rain-boosted attacks easily, while also keeping Ninetales free from status. Slowbro is a pretty good partner, as the two have good synergy together. Be careful however, as using both Slowbro and Chansey can make you very weak to Breloom. Cresselia is a sturdy wall on sun teams and has nice synergy with Chansey, but their roles often overlap with each other, meaning there can be some redundancy. Donphan and Forretress are two spinners that fit very nicely on sun teams. Donphan has its Water weakness reduced and checks physical attacks pretty nicely, while Forretress can tank just about any physical attacker while also providing support in the form of entry hazards and Rapid Spin. Sableye is the best option for a spinblocker on sun teams, and shares excellent synergy with Chansey. Sableye is also one of the best counters to Reuniclus, a Pokemon that often gives Chansey a headache, while it can also burn physical attackers, taking pressure off of Chansey.</p>

<p>Entry hazards are annoying for Chansey to switch into, so having a spinner is important. Donphan, Tentacruel, and Forretress can both Rapid Spin and appreciate Chansey's huge Wishes and her ability to come in on special attacks. They also can set up entry hazards, wearing down the opposing team. Finally, Landorus-T is one of the best switch-ins to Terrakion and Scizor, two Pokemon that often use Chansey as setup bait.</p>

<p>The main advantages of using Chansey over Blissey are that Chansey has much better overall bulk and can actually take quite a few physical attacks. Blissey, however, has Leftovers, making her a much better choice on sand hail teams, as the recoil from sand and hail really undermines Chansey's bulk. This means Chansey is more viable on sun and rain teams, meaning Ninetales and Politoed are the best partners for Chansey.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Counter is a pretty cool option, as thanks to Chansey's incredible HP stat and low Defense stat, Counter will often net a KO on physical attackers. Light Screen is an okay option, as it allows other teammates to easily tank special attacks, but this role is often better filled by Cresselia and Bronzong. Skill Swap can be used to stop Reuniclus from destroying your team. Psych Up has some value in that it can go through Substitutes and thus steals defensive boosts such as a Quiver Dance or a Calm Mind boost from a Jirachi, Reuniclus, or Celebi, but it has little use outside of that. Chansey has some gimmicky options in Sing and Charm, but she has better things to do.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The large list of Fighting-types in OU are the best way to keep Chansey in check; Terrakion, Breloom, Keldeo, Infernape, Conkeldurr, and Lucario are all Pokemon that can switch in pretty easily and force Chansey out. However, some of these must be wary of Thunder Wave on the switch. Conkeldurr is probably the most consistent Fighting-type switch-in, as it doesn't care about Toxic or Thunder Wave. Any strong physical attacker with high-powered STAB attacks or Fighting-type coverage can usually muscle past Chansey. Strong Ground- and Dragon-types such as Garchomp, Choice Band Dragonite, and Double Dance Landorus-T can easily get past Chansey or force it out.</p>

<p>Calm Mind Reuniclus gives Chansey hell thanks to Magic Guard and Recover, and can easily get past Chansey with Psyshock. Stallbreakers such as Gliscor, Reuniclus, and Gengar easily force Chansey to switch. Gliscor is immune to status thanks to Poison Heal and can Taunt Chansey due to its higher base Speed. Reuniclus has Magic Guard and can use Chansey as setup bait. Gengar is immune to Toxic and Seismic Toss and can use Chansey's own health to its advantage via Pain Split and can also carry Taunt. Gothitelle is scary for Chansey to face, as it can easily Trick a Choice item onto Chansey, as Shadow Tag prevents switching. Once locked into a move, it can be KOed or used as setup bait the following turn. Magic Bounce users such as Xatu and Espeon can easily bounce back status inducing moves and Stealth Rock. Finally, Trick users such as Latios and Rotom-W cripple Chansey by replacing her beloved Eviolite with a handicap.</p>