[Overview]

<p>Ever since her debut in DPP, Cresselia has always had difficulty competing in OU. The transition to BW2 is no different; new threats, such as Drizzle Politoed, put a hamper on Cresselia's effectiveness, while old threats, namely Scizor and Tyranitar, are still prominent in today's metagame. Despite Cresselia's stupendous defenses, her lackluster typing and barren movepool keep her from functioning as the defensive juggernaut she was meant to be. However, BW2 wasn't entirely unkind; along with Drizzle Politoed, Drought Ninetales also took center stage. Under the sunlight, Moonlight, an otherwise mediocre recovery move, restores Cresselia's health by a staggering 67%. This, along with her excellent ability, Levitate, allows Cresselia to wall some of the most powerful Pokemon in OU, such as Garchomp and Terrakion, both of which are troublesome Pokemon for sun teams. Moreover, sun staples, such as Dugtrio, reciprocate the support by removing Cresselia's counters. With infinite sun rays guiding her, Cresselia becomes an incredible asset to her team and a phenomenal mixed wall.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive 
move 1: Moonlight 
move 2: Toxic 
move 3: Ice Beam / Psychic 
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Reflect / Psychic
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The combination of sun support, supreme bulk, and reliable recovery makes Cresselia one of the premier walls for sun balanced and stall teams. Moonlight is Cresselia's only reliable recovery move; together with Toxic and sunlight, Cresselia can stall out most physical and special attackers in the tier. Cresselia can use Ice Beam to slay Dragon-types, rather than stall with Toxic and Moonlight, ensuring more longevity. Psychic is the most reliable STAB attack, used to take out the Fighting-types that plague the tier. Hidden Power Fire dents Scizor and various other Steel-types; without it, they could set up on Cresselia. Scizor can even Pursuit trap Cresselia if it's lacking Hidden Power Fire, thus dealing considerable damage. Reflect does a few things: allow Cresselia to wall physical attackers more easily, soften the impact of Tyranitar's and Scizor's Pursuit, and provide a temporary defensive wall for Cresselia's teammates. When using Psychic, Cresselia can counter almost every Fighting-type in OU.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are maximized in Defense so that Cresselia can wall powerful physical attackers, such as Terrakion, Garchomp, and Lucario. However, Cresselia can run 40 Special Attack EVs to OHKO Choice Band Scizor after Stealth Rock with Hidden Power Fire in the sun. 0 Speed IVs with a Relaxed nature and Trick Room in the fourth move slot can be used to support Trick Room Victini and Quiet Eruption Heatran. If Cresselia is utilizing Hidden Power Fire, then the IVs should be changed to 2 Atk / 30 SpA / 30 Spe, minimizing Confusion and Foul Play damage while retaining a strong Hidden Power Fire.</p> 

<p>Thunder Wave is an acceptable option over Toxic. With Thunder Wave, Cresselia can cripple fast sweepers, such as Terrakion, Keldeo, and Alakazam, making it easier for her teammates to sweep. Due to the fact the Cresselia often lures in status moves and Taunt, Magic Coat can be used to bounce back entry hazards and those same incoming status afflictions. Moonlight is often dependent on optimal weather conditions to work; as such, Cresselia can utilize the well-known ChestoRest strategy as a single, reliable healing method to restore her health and remove status afflictions.</p>

<p>Sun support is recommended if you intend on using Cresselia. Without sun support, Cresselia will be hindered by the presence of other weathers, as Moonlight's recovery becomes a measly 25%. Moreover, under the sunlight, Moonlight becomes a 67% healing move, optimizing Cresselia's defensive potential. Sun teams also appreciate Cresselia's presence, as she can wall troublesome Pokemon, namely Mamoswine and Terrakion. In return, common sun sweepers, such as Victini and Darmanitan, can lure out and weaken opposing weather starters and check the Steel-types that hinder Cresselia . Venusaur and Cresselia also form an excellent partnership, as Venusaur can deal with Rotom-W and Gastrodon while Cresselia can take on Latios and Dragonite. Gothitelle and Dugtrio are incredible assets to Cresselia and her team thanks to their ability to dispose of opposing weather inducers. Chansey also works well with Cresselia by providing Wish support and relieving Cresselia of status afflictions with Heal Bell. Chansey also has the added benefit of being one of the few sun Pokemon that can beat Calm Mind Latias, which also troubles Cresselia. Rapid Spin support from Tentacruel and Forretress, or Magic Bounce support from Xatu and Espeon, can help keep Ninetales healthy, which in return benefits Cresselia by sustaining the sunlight. This allows Cresselia to use moonlight to its fullest potential. Entry hazard support from Forretress is helpful in breaking down the opposing team. Finally, other excellent partners include Pokemon that deal with Tyranitar, such as Terrakion.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens 
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Lunar Dance
move 4: Thunder Wave / Ice Beam 
item: Light Clay
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 112 Def / 12 SpD / 136 Spe
ivs: 0 atk

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Cresselia's incredible bulk along with her signature move, Lunar Dance, set her apart from other dual screen users, making her a great supporter for a variety of offensive teams. Reflect and Light Screen go hand in hand, improving the overall defensive prowess of her teammates. Lunar Dance is a game-changing move; sacrificing Cresselia, Lunar Dance restores an injured sweeper back to full health. When backed by the support of Cresselia's dual screens, a once frail and injured sweeper has enough health and bulk to set up. Due to Cresselia's phenomenal bulk, Lunar Dance is best used mid-game, as Cresselia will normally have more than one opportunity to set up dual screens. In the final slot, Thunder Wave can be used to cripple faster sweepers, giving a teammate more opportunities to set up. Ice Beam is also useful for its ability to weaken Dragon-types, which is helpful for sweepers such as Venusaur.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With Reflect activated, the given EVs allow Cresselia to survive two Crunches from Choice Band Tyranitar after Stealth Rock and outspeed Adamant Breloom, thus giving Cresselia more chances to set up dual screens. The Attack IVs are zero so that Cresselia will take minimal confusion and Foul Play damage. Cresselia can opt for a 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD defensive spread with a Relaxed nature, 0 Speed IVs, and Trick Room in the fourth slot to act as a reliable dual screens user for Trick Room teams.</p>

<p>Cresselia can utilize quite few other options in the fourth move slot. Psychic can be used as a reliable STAB to dent Fighting-types. Toxic can be used to cripple walls, thus allowing her teammates to run through the opposing team more easily. Magic Coat is also an option so that Cresselia isn't Taunt bait. This Cresselia partners well with frail setup sweepers; Volcarona, Venusaur, and Salamence can all use dual screens effectively to accumulate boosts and ravage through the opposing team. Thundurus-T and Lucario are also excellent partners for Cresselia, as they can also take advantage of the extra bulk provided by dual screens to set up Agility and Swords Dance, respectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There are a few other methods Cresselia can use to heal herself. RestTalk is one; however, it is rather unreliable and forces Cresselia to acquire two move slots to be used effectively. A Chesto Berry can be used with Rest and Recycle; it's slightly more reliable, but it gives Cresselia a severe case of four moveslot syndrome. Psycho Shift and Flame Orb can be used on the defensive set, giving Cresselia the opportunity to spread burns and cripple her counters. Psycho Shift can also be used with RestTalk to spread sleep; however, because of Sleep Clause, it can only be used once. Solarbeam can work on a set using both RestTalk and Psycho Shift; it will never be picked by Sleep Talk and can be used fairly well on the sun teams Cresselia is found on. Speaking of status afflictions, Cresselia can use Safeguard to fend them off. Sunny Day is an excellent way to grab momentum from opposing weather inducers. Finally, Cresselia can use an offensive or defensive Calm Mind set, but it is outclassed by other Psychic-types, such as Jirachi and Reuniclus.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best way to beat Cresselia is to change the weather to sand, hail, or rain. Under these weather conditions, Cresselia loses most of her defensive merits, as Moonlight can no longer restore Cresselia's health by 67% and instead recovers a measly 25%. The two best counters to Cresselia are Choice Band Tyranitar and Heatran. Tyranitar can remove Cresselia's favored weather condition, take very little damage from any of her attacks, and threaten to 2HKO, while also dealing big amounts of damage if it uses Pursuit as Cresselia switches out. Heatran is the next best if not the best counter, as Heatran takes nothing from any of Cresselia's attacks and can either 2HKO Cresselia with a sun-boosted Fire Blast or stall it out with Toxic. Politoed is a good check, just like Tyranitar, as it removes Cresselia's favored weather condition, and can threaten it with a powerful rain boosted Hydro Pump, though it has to watch out for an incoming Toxic, as it will be easily worn down.</p>

<p>Outside of altering the weather condition, Calm Mind Latias with either Substitute or Refresh is very threatening to Cresselia and her team, as it can use Cresselia as setup bait and proceed to demolish her party. Either variant of Kyurem is capable of turning Cresselia into a liability by setting up on it. Defensive Starmie doesn't care about anything Cresselia can do, and can eventually burn it with Scald, limiting her longevity. Provided that sun is up, Fire-types such as Volcarona and Victini are good checks, as they can switch-in relatively easy and greatly threaten Cresselia. Reuniclus is a decent check, thanks to Magic Guard and its well rounded bulk, Reuniclus can potentially outstall Cresselia while taking very little from any of her attacks. Celebi can set up with either Calm Mind or Nasty Plot and proceed to beat Cresselia or pass the boosts along to a proper recipient. As long as Cresselia lacks Hidden Power Fire, Steel-types such as Scizor, Jirachi, and Ferrothorn make excellent counters as well. Scizor can also destroy Cresselia with its Bug-type STAB attacks. Jirachi and Ferrothorn can use Cresselia as setup bait. Thanks to its ability, Prankster, Sableye can effectively shut down Cresselia and heal off any acquired damage, though Toxic will cripple it. Speaking of Toxic, it is another way to beat Cresselia, as she has very few methods of removing the status affliction. Finally, bulky Taunt or Substitute users such as Gyarados make good counters to Cresselia as well.</p>