[Overview]

<p>Incredible hype at the beginning of Diamond and Pearl, followed by gut-wrenching disappointment after a few moments of fame has led to the common idea that Electivire is a failure of a Pokemon. While this mostly holds true in Black and White, Electivire is not a complete waste. Even though it is outsped and taken down by some immensely popular threats such as Dragon Dance Haxorus and Rock Polish Terrakion, Electivire still has some redeeming factors. The major draw it has over its main rival, Eelektross, is that it has much better Speed, access to Motor Drive, and an incredible movepool that allows it to take down many common walls such as Blissey and Ferrothorn. It also received a new physical STAB move in Wild Charge this generation, meaning it is no longer reliant on the weak ThunderPunch.</p>

<p>However, underwhelming stats and a reliance on Motor Drive really hammers the nails in Electivire's coffin. It will be difficult finding a slot for it on your team, and there is almost always a better option available. Electivire's wide movepool and ability to run an effective mixed set just doesn't impress as much when compared to the sheer force of newer threats such as Scrafty or Conkeldurr.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Cross Chop
move 3: Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Flamethrower
item: Life Orb / Expert Belt
nature: Mild
ability: Motor Drive
evs: 40 Atk / 252 SpA / 216 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Electivire works on the premise that low power can be made up for with incredible coverage. This may be true to a point, but in reality, Electivire needs that Life Orb to really eke the most out of its movepool. There are no questions about it—this set either needs Agility or Rock Polish Baton Passed to it, or Electivire needs to be switched in on a Choice-locked Electric-type attack. Without that increase in Speed, Electivire will be taken out by a good chunk of the metagame before it even starts launching attacks.</p>

<p>That isn't to say Electivire is useless. Under the right conditions, it has the potential to wreak havoc. With incredible coverage, Expert Belt becomes a viable choice. Even though its offensive stats may not be sky-high, they are still good enough to take down many common attackers in the metagame, such as Salamence and Gyarados. It's worth noting that more of the emphasis is on Special Attack, and that's mainly due to the ubiquity of Intimidate, the prevalence of high Defense Pokemon such as Ferrothorn and Gliscor, and quite simply a coincidence in that most of the big threats of the metagame have a lower Special Defense. This is why Thunderbolt is usually a better option than ThunderPunch or Wild Chrarge. However, a physical attack such as Cross Chop still has its uses here and there to decimate common special walls, such as Blissey and Chansey. A similar story is true for Flamethrower and Hidden Power Ice versus Fire Punch and Ice Punch, respectively.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Electivire needs some serious team support—aside from the obvious problems with its Speed, it also has problems in regards to outright killing its targets. Entry hazards are almost a must, and you should include counters to Electivire's common switch-ins. Latias and Rotom-W in particular will give Electivire some real problems, being able to tank its hits and retaliate with either Dragon Pulse or Will-O-Wisp, respectively. If Electivire is without a Speed boost, it suddenly becomes a sitting duck for many sweepers, such as Landorus and Salamence, threats it could otherwise easily KO with Hidden Power Ice. There are no other real options for moves, apart from Hidden Power Grass to hit Gastrodon and Swampert. Life Orb will give Electivire the power it needs to deal damage, but the choice between it and Expert Belt is purely preference-based. The EVs and nature make the set as offensive as possible.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Wild Charge
move 2: Ice Punch
move 3: Fire Punch / Earthquake
move 4: Cross Chop
item: Life Orb / Expert Belt
nature: Adamant
ability: Motor Drive
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Electivire may have more success with a mixed set, but its highest stat is Attack, and with a bit of creativity, it can be an effective physical attacker. In fact, by focusing all of its offensive prowess into a single stat, it can function more effectively in certain conditions. Of course, Electivire still retains the problems of lacking Speed and sheer power, and in some cases this is emphasized in that a lot more of the tanks in OU are defensive. Whereas a mixed Electivire only has to deal with Blissey through Cross Chop, a purely physical Electivire may have enhanced difficulties breaking through Forretress or Scrafty. Despite this, it can still function with the right support, provided certain menacing threats such as Landorus and Gliscor are taken out. Wild Charge takes the place of Thunderbolt, Ice Punch comes in over Hidden Power, and Fire Punch replaces Flamethrower. Aside from the fact that your KO list has changed, this set plays similarly to the mixed attacker.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>It's worth noting that having shifted to a different attacking stat, any problems with Electivire on your side of play remain the same—subpar Speed, predictability, and lack of power. What does change is the number and types of options your opponent now has. Blissey is no longer a safe switch, and Cloyster now has only two moves to safely switch in on. Conkeldurr is now more questionable, but Metagross is still capable. Electivire simply requires smart play from the player in that you need to know what will give Electivire problems and eliminate those problems before Electivire cleans up. Earthquake becomes an option, as it is always a solid attack, but there aren't many other changes to be made. Aside from this, Electivire plays just like any other physical sweeper would.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Rock Slide can be sneaked in over Ice Punch if used alongside Earthquake for coverage reasons, but the fall in damage against Salamence and Landorus is noticable. Thunder can be used instead of Thunderbolt on the mixed set if Electivire is serving in a Rain Dance team; the Water-typed teammates will also lure Electric-type moves for Electivire so that it can grab its Motor Drive boost. Choice Band and Choice Scarf can be effective, but when the main draw of a Pokemon is its incredible type coverage, it isn't such a good idea. Electivire can really do well after receiving Baton Passed boosts, especially from Gorebyss, who can give it its much needed offensive and Speed boosts with Shell Smash. On top of this, its Water typing draws Thunder Wave and Thunderbolt from all around, pushing Electivire to ridiculous Speed levels.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to its insane coverage, Electivire has few real counters, as most of its switch-ins are more than likely susceptible to a super effective hit. Dugtrio is one of the biggest threats to Electivire: if its Focus Sash is intact and entry hazards are absent, it can switch in on Electivire, trap it, and KO it with Earthquake; otherwise, it can still safely switch in on Wild Charge or Thunderbolt. If Electivire carries Hidden Power Ice over Ice Punch, Latias will be able to set up on it, while Latios can take a hit and force it out with the threat of a Draco Meteor KO. Without Hidden Power Grass, Electivire will have trouble breaking through Gastrodon, Swampert, and Quagsire; all three, however, should be wary of a critical hit Cross Chop. Rotom-H resists most of Electivire's common movepool and can hit it with Overheat or burn it with Will-O-Wisp; however, a 2x weakness to Stealth Rock makes it a shaky check under common battle conditions, and offensive variants should be especially wary of switching in on Cross Chop, which has a chance to 2HKO. Cresselia can safely switch in on the strongest of Electivire's moves; however, because its recovery is gimped by either weather or sleep mechanics, it is not a very practical counter. Similarly, Mew can switch in on most of Electivire's movepool, but it risks being 2HKOed by a Wild Charge from a max Attack, Life Orb Electivire.</p> 

<p>Even with a Motor Drive boost, Electivire is still outpaced by several common Choice Scarf users, including Landorus, Haxorus, and Salamence, all of whom can revenge kill it with Earthquake.</p>