[Overview]

<p>Espeon has long been relegated to the role of cutest Pokemon in the game, only being used in ultimate cutemon teams. This was in large part due to it being outclassed by other Psychic-types, such as Alakazam and Azelf. However, Dream World has granted Espeon a second chance in its Pokecareer in the form of Magic Bounce. Magic Bounce allows Espeon to act as a team supporter, bouncing back most non-attacking moves, most notably Stealth Rock, Taunt, and Roar. It also has a handy base 110 Speed and an impressive Special Attack, allowing it to outspeed and OHKO potent threats such as Terrakion and Keldeo with ease. Unfortunately for Espeon, its physical bulk is poor, meaning that a single misprediction can result in its death. This is further compounded by the fact that Espeon's main counters&mdash;Tyranitar and Scizor&mdash;all get a fair amount of usage. Espeon is also largely outclassed by Xatu in a general support role, but still finds a niche setting up screens for hyper offense teams, and acting as the core of all pure Baton Pass teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Psychic / Psyshock
move 4: Baton Pass / Hidden Power Fire
item: Light Clay
ability: Magic Bounce
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>When you combine Espeon's ability to reflect hazards and set up dual screens, it becomes a very good team supporter. Espeon is most effective when brought in on an entry hazard setter such as Forretress or Ferrothorn, bouncing back any hazards they attempt to set up. Espeon can then proceed to set up screens to ensure that if the foe does try attacking, it does significantly less damage. However, you should be cautious of switching Espeon in blindly, as a Gyro Ball from Forretress or Ferrothorn will put a major dent into it and greatly reduce its longevity. As such, when you do attempt to set up screens, it is recommended to set up Reflect first, as it helps to boost Espeon's poor Defense and gives it additional protection from common switch-ins such as Tyranitar and Scizor.</p>

<p>Espeon's often overlooked base 130 Special Attack ensures that it is not setup fodder for rampant threats such as Thundurus-T and Keldeo. Psychic is the preferred STAB over Psyshock as it is naturally stronger and allows Espeon the ability to beat Bulk Up Conkeldurr. Although Psyshock is slightly weaker, it does allow Espeon to beat Calm Mind Keldeo and Terrakion in sandstorm, as it hits their weaker Defense stat. Baton Pass might seem like an odd choice, especially when Espeon is lacking any boosting move, but it is incredibly useful. Baton Pass allows Espeon to escape the clutches of Pursuit users, as Pursuit does not hit Espeon if it uses Baton Pass beforehand. Combine this information with the fact that Espeon's main two switch-ins, Tyranitar and Scizor, are both Pursuit users, and Baton Pass can often save Espeon from death. Baton Pass also allows Espeon to escape Gothitelle, who may otherwise stall out precious screen turns by keeping Espeon in with its ability Shadow Tag. However, if running away from your problems doesn't tickle your fancy, then Hidden Power Fire is a usable option over Baton Pass. Hidden Power Fire allows Espeon to KO Scizor before it can use U-turn or Pursuit, and with a Reflect up, Bullet Punch doesn't do nearly enough to KO Espeon. Unfortunately, Hidden Power Fire also leaves Espeon incredibly vulnerable to Tyranitar, almost always resulting in Espeon's demise.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is fairly straightforward; simply maximize HP and Speed to give Espeon as much bulk as possible while retaining max Speed. A Timid nature is essentially required as it allows Espeon to outspeed potent threats such as Landorus and Thundurus-T. An alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 68 Def / 188 Spe can be used to gain more physical bulk and still be able to outspeed Jolly Garchomp. However, this spread loses out on the ability to outspeed prominent threats such as Terrakion and Keldeo, which can very well be the difference in a battle. Light Clay is also required, as it extends the amount of turns Reflect and Light Screen will be up from five to eight. Hidden Power Ground is an option in the fourth slot in order to hit Heatran for major damage while also getting some damage on Tyranitar, while Hidden Power Fighting can be used to hit Tyranitar hard, although not hard enough to OHKO it.</p>  

<p>Good teammates for Espeon are Pokemon that enjoy dual screen support and the lack of entry hazards such as Stealth Rock. Fast, frail sweepers such as Salamence and Haxorus are good partners for Espeon, as they are able to come in and Dragon Dance with additional bulk. Volcarona is also a good partner as it greatly appreciates Stealth Rock being absent and can then proceed to use Quiver Dance and wreak havoc. In terms of beating Espeon's common switch-ins, Heatran is a nice teammate for Espeon, as it is able to roast Scizor, while also being able to burn Tyranitar with Will-o-Wisp and KO opposing Heatran with Earth Power.</p> 

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Calm Mind / Substitute
move 3: Stored Power
move 4: Hidden Power Fighting
item: Leftovers
ability: Magic Bounce
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Espeon has the honor of being the only Pokemon with the legal combination of Magic Bounce and Baton Pass, making it the crux of many Baton Pass teams. With Magic Bounce reflecting moves such as Taunt and Roar that would normally break a Baton Pass chain, it becomes an extremely valuable member. Not only does its amazing ability make Espeon a good end Pokemon in a Baton Pass chain, but it can also continue a chain because it itself learns Baton Pass. However, you should be wary that Magic Bounce does not protect Espeon from the likes of Dragon Tail and Circle Throw, as these moves will end your chain unless you have been passed Ingrain or are behind a Substitute.</p>

<p>Calm Mind is the boosting move of choice, as it allows Espeon to boost its Special Attack and Stored Power's strength simultaneously. It also has the nifty bonus of making Espeon more specially bulky, and if it is passed a few Defense boosts, it becomes extremely hard to take down. However, Substitute is also a good option; even though Espeon is already immune to many of the moves it blocks, protecting Espeon from critical hits is paramount. It is often too much to ask of Espeon for it to set up boosts as well as reflecting Taunt and phazing moves, and sweeping. Stored Power is chosen over other STABs, such as Psychic and Psyshock because after two boosts, it becomes stronger than the aforementioned options. It is important to remember that any boost will power up Stored Power, so it is not limited to being enhanced by solely Calm Mind. Hidden Power Fighting is important, as it's Espeon's only way of damaging Dark-types, especially Tyranitar, dispatching of it easily after a few Special Attack boosts. It also has the ability to hit Steel-types such as Ferrothorn for major damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread provides Espeon with as much physical bulk as possible, as it will have to switch into Pokemon like Hippowdon and Skarmory to avoid phazing moves. Without investment into Defense, Brave Birds and Earthquakes really sting. With some Speed Baton Passed to it, the lack of Speed EVs will probably not prove significant, although if you are not confident that you will attain Speed boosts, you might want to invest in Speed. Hidden Power Fire can be used over Hidden Power Fighting, as it allows Espeon to dispose of Scizor quickly, but it leaves Espeon exposed to Tyranitar and Heatran. It is possible to run both Substitute and Calm Mind at the expense of Hidden Power Fighting, but you should have another Pokemon to pass your boosts to, as a mono-Psychic moveset leaves Espeon walled by a number of Pokemon. Wish can also be used to support your team, however Espeon's HP value is rather low, so it won't be passing much HP to the next Pokemon.</p>

<p>This Espeon should really only be used in dedicated Baton Pass teams, otherwise its potential is essentially wasted. Good teammates for Espeon are common Baton Pass components. Ninjask and Vaporeon are especially good teammates as Ninjask is able to pass multiple Speed boosts in order to make the chain faster, and Vaporeon is able to pass Defense boosts to make Espeon physically bulkier. Mawile is an option for Defense boosts as well, as Steel typing, Intimidate, and Taunt are extremely handy. Mew is also a good teammate, as it can pass a variety of boosts, most notably Nasty Plot, Amnesia, and Barrier. Lastly, Mr Mime is worth considering, because Perish Song presents a major problem to Baton Pass teams otherwise.</p>
 
[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Psyshock / Psychic
move 2: Hidden Power Fire
move 3: Signal Beam / Grass Knot
move 4: Baton Pass / Protect
item: Life Orb
ability: Magic Bounce
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Espeon is typically seen and used as a support unit, this set takes advantage of its fantastic Special Attack and Speed stats, allowing Espeon to pose as a formidable special attacker while still being able to utilize Magic Bounce effectively. This variant also doesn't lose momentum as often as the other sets due to its splendid power and coverage, and offers a greater chance of luring and beating opponents that would normally stay in against Espeon. Psyshock is the preferred STAB move on this set as it reliably attains more kills against relevant threats; this includes an OHKO on Terrakion in sandstorm and Calm Mind Keldeo, and a 2HKO against special walls such as Gastrodon and Blissey. On the other hand, Psychic is an overall more powerful option for physical walls such as Gliscor and Hippowdon. Hidden Power Fire is nigh-mandatory; boosted by Life Orb and investment, it wipes out Steel-types such as Ferrothorn, Forretress, Skarmory, and Scizor, all of which are number one targets for this set.</p>

<p>In the third slot, Signal Beam is chosen as it has good coverage with Psyshock and hits Dark- and Psychic-types such as Hydreigon and Celebi super effectively. Grass Knot can be used over Signal Beam for a chance to 2HKO 252 HP/0 SpD Tyranitar and OHKO Gastrodon and Hippowdon, but note that Espeon should not risk staying in front of a healthy Tyranitar. The last slot ultimately determines how Espeon performs against its regular counters. Baton Pass allows Espeon to scout and virtually be immune to slower Pursuits, especially those coming from Tyranitar, Scizor, and Metagross. Protect is an equally useful alternative which eases prediction and scouts the opponent's next possible move; this is especially useful against Metagross, Scizor, and other priority users, most of whom might use their respective priority attacks rather than Pursuit or any other move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As far as other options go, Hidden Power Ground specifically hits Heatran, which walls this set otherwise, but leaves Espeon helpless against a host of important Steel-types this set was designed to win against. Calm Mind is another option to boost Espeon's offense even further, allowing it to break through some defensively-oriented threats and cores while preventing opponents attempting to accumulate Life Orb recoil. Keep in mind that Espeon might not find time to effectively utilize the boost as, without the protection of Protect or Baton Pass, its sweep is often stopped short by Choice Scarf users and priority.</p>

<p>Espeon should obviously be paired with teammates that benefit from the lack of entry hazards on its side of the field. Again, due to its expanded coverage and power, it is recommended to choose Pokemon that can clean up after it, namely late-game sweepers and attackers such as Choice Scarf Keldeo and Dragon Dance Dragonite. It should be noted that Espeon is hard-walled by Heatran and defensive Latias; reasonably bulky Water-types, such as Gyarados, Rotom-W, and Keldeo, can take care of Heatran, while specially defensive Jirachi easily handles Latias. Espeon also pairs well with teammates that can take moves such as Bullet Punch and Pursuit, as it can escape them with Protect or Baton Pass, respectively. Rotom-W, Cobalion, Gyarados, Keldeo, Jirachi, Volcarona, Magnezone, Scizor, and Heatran do not mind these two moves at all, and can also take most other forms of priority reasonably well. Bulky Volcarona in particular stands out, as it can set up on these moves easily and put immediate pressure on the opposing team after a Quiver Dance boost, and also appreciates Espeon's ability to keep Stealth Rock away.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Espeon can choose to run an offensive Calm Mind set, working off its high base 130 Special Attack, but its lack of physical bulk will often leave you disappointed when you try setting up. In addition, offensive Calm Mind does not use Espeon's fantastic ability Magic Bounce to the best of its ability, the biggest thing Espeon has over other Psychic-types, making it somewhat outclassed by them. Grass Knot is a good option for Espeon to use, especially on Baton Pass variants, as it allows Espeon to dispose of troublesome Pokemon such as Quagsire, which give Baton Pass teams some trouble thanks to Unaware. Do note that Unaware doesn't effect Stored Power's Base Power, allowing Espeon to break through it after a few stat boosts. Yawn is a nifty move that can give Espeon some time to set up, but is rather unreliable. Morning Sun can be useful, especially when used in tandem with Drought Ninetales, but the common usage of other weather starters also makes it unreliable. At first glimpse, Espeon looks like a good Choice Specs or Choice Scarf user, but it really isn't. Its movepool is rather shallow and getting locked into a Psychic-type move is an incredibly bad idea, especially with Pursuit users such as Tyranitar and Scizor running around.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Espeon's main counters are Tyranitar and Scizor. Tyranitar can come into basically anything with impunity and KO with Crunch if Espeon chooses to stay in, or Pursuit if it lacks Baton Pass and tries switching out. Scizor hits Espeon's lower Defense stat with a powerful U-turn, but must be wary of Espeon carrying Hidden Power Fire. Heatran is also an excellent counter as it can switch into all of Espeon's moves, fearing only the occasional Hidden Power Ground. Volcarona makes an excellent switch-in because of the fact that it has high Special Defense, tanking any move Espeon throws at it, and can promptly KO with Bug Buzz or simply set up Quiver Dance boosts.</p>

<p>Generally speaking, anything faster with a strong physical attack should do well against Espeon. This includes Pokemon such as Weavile, which has no problem with dispatching Espeon, and Choice Scarf Salamence, which will promptly KO Espeon with an Outrage. Although not Pokemon, Dragon Tail and Circle Throw are counters to the Baton Pass set as they are not affected by Magic Bounce, but Espeon can rid itself of that problem if it is passed an Ingrain. Haze is probably the best counter to Baton Pass Espeon, as Magic Bounce fails to reflect it and there isn't really anything Espeon can do about it.</p>