[Overview]

<p>Do not be fooled by Gorebyss's docile appearance. Access to Shell Smash, one of the best set-up moves in the entire game, makes it quite a threat to deal with, especially in the rain. As if that weren't enough, Gorebyss can also support its team by Baton Passing this boost, turning the receiver into an absolute monster. However, it does have a few flaws, such as low HP, poor Special Defense, and a heavy reliance on White Herb. Nevertheless, Gorebyss is a surprising threat that every team should be prepared for.</p>

[SET]
name: SmashPass
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Surf
move 4: Substitute / Ice Beam
item: White Herb
ability: Hydration
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 24 SpD / 232 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Gorebyss is one of three Pokemon who can pass a Shell Smash boost to another team member, blessing the recipient with +2 boosts in Attack, Special Attack, and Speed. However, Shell Smash also lowers both defenses by one stage; this makes Gorebyss heavily reliant on White Herb, so you usually have only one chance of getting it right. Ideally, Gorebyss should be brought in against a Pokemon who can barely threaten her, such as a Starmie locked into Ice Beam. From there, Gorebyss should use Shell Smash, and depending on the situation, use Baton Pass or attack directly. Surf is a powerful and reliable STAB move. Substitute is essential to this set because it protects Gorebyss from status and keeps it healthy. Passing an intact Substitute to a receiver is also a bonus. Alternatively, you may want to use Ice Beam to nail any Grass- or Dragon-type Pokemon who happen to switch in. Ice Beam also allows Gorebyss to deal with phazers such as Roar Latias and Dragon Tail Gyarados.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>After a boost, 232 Speed EVs allow Gorebyss to outspeed base 130 Pokemon, such as Jolteon and Aerodactyl, even with a positive nature. Maximum HP and 24 Special Defense EVs allow Gorebyss to take hits better, especially as it has a nice base Defense stat. White Herb is a must-have item, as it negates both defense drops caused by Shell Smash. For the fourth slot, if Substitute or Ice Beam is not required, Gorebyss may wish to run Hidden Power Grass or Fire in order to defeat some common checks and counters. Hidden Power Grass ensures that Water-type Pokemon do not wall Gorebyss, and Hidden Power Fire demolishes Ferrothorn and Abomasnow, two common switch-ins.</p>

<p>Dual screens support is appreciated, as it allows Gorebyss and its receiver to take hits easily. Latios has decent defensive synergy with Gorebyss, and can also use Memento, effectively leaving the foe with -6 Attack and Special Attack with screens set up. If offensively-oriented Pokemon are not desirable, some defensive options include Jirachi, Uxie (who, once again, can use Memento to your team's advantage), and Bronzong. It is recommended to have at least two dual screens users on a team with Shell Smash + Baton Pass Gorebyss, as this makes pulling off the risky SmashPass strategy much easier.</p>

<p>The recipient of the boost should not be any random Pokemon. There are certain qualities a Pokemon must possess in order to be a good receiver. First, a good receiver should be able to handle priority moves, either by possessing bulk or by being able to use its own priority attacks (or a combination of both). One example of this is Metagross; its Steel / Psychic typing enables it to shrug off many different types of attacks, and it has great bulk. Metagross can also use Bullet Punch, its own priority attack. Another quality the recipient should have is the ability to destroy common walls, such as Ferrothorn, Jellicent, Skarmory, and Blissey. Infernape is an excellent mixed wallbreaker and can easily destroy walls after a Shell Smash. On a final note, having recipients hold Lum Berry is a good idea, as many Pokemon will attempt to cripple the recipient with status moves in order to prevent them from sweeping.</p>

<p>Gorebyss loathes priority attacks, even when behind screens. For example, Conkeldurr, running a specially defensive spread, can set up on it as it uses Shell Smash and deal heavy damage with Drain Punch + Mach Punch. A strong special attacker, such as Calm Mind Reuniclus, can easily defeat the aforementioned menace. Pokemon with the ability Prankster, such as Tornadus and Whimsicott, are also problems, as they can Taunt Gorebyss before it sets up or cripple it with status moves. Magic Bounce Espeon and Xatu can easily counter these threats by reflecting their attacks back at them, and on top of that, set up dual screens. Phazers also pose a problem, as they can force Gorebyss out, removing the Shell Smash boost. Calm Mind + Roar Latias, a common phazer, can be brought down by very powerful physical attacks, such as repeated Crunches from Choice Band Tyranitar. RestTalk Gyarados, another common phazer, is easily dented by Electric-type attacks, such as those from Rotom-W.</p>

[SET]
name: Shell Smash Sweeper
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Surf
move 3: Hidden Power Grass / Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Life Orb / Lum Berry
nature: Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a single Shell Smash, Gorebyss obtains a +2 boost for its Attack, Special Attack, and Speed stats, making it a formidable threat. The ability to double its offensive stats makes it a great sweeper in rain (although rain is not required). However, Shell Smash also comes at the cost of lowering both of Gorebyss's defenses by one stage, making it vulnerable to priority. For these reasons, Gorebyss is best used as a late-game sweeper, when all dangerous threats have been taken care of.</p>

<p>After a Shell Smash boost, Surf can easily OHKO or 2HKO the majority of Pokemon who do not resist the attack. The other attacks are for coverage. Hidden Power Grass hits Jellicent, Gastrodon, Quagsire and other Pokemon immune to Water-type attacks, who could easily wall this set. Hidden Power Fire, on the other hand, enables Gorebyss to hit Ferrothorn and Abomasnow, two common switch-ins. As a small note, do not shy away from using Hidden Power Fire if Gorebyss is used on a rain team, because the attack will still be super effective against the two aforementioned threats. Ice Beam allows Gorebyss to punish phazers such as Roar Latias and Dragon Tail Salamence. The move also hits Grass-type Pokemon if Hidden Power Grass is selected.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs for this set are straightforward. 252 Speed EVs enable Gorebyss to outspeed Pokemon with a base Speed of 150, even with a Speed-boosting nature, after a Shell Smash. This includes every non-boosted Pokemon in rain. Meanwhile, maximum Special Attack, combined with a Modest nature, allows Gorebyss to hit extremely hard. An alternative spread of 224 HP / 252 SpA / 32 Spe can be used for some more bulk. It may seem odd that Surf is listed on this set instead of Hydro Pump. However, given Hydro Pump's shaky 80% accuracy, as well as the defense drops provided by Shell Smash, it is best to play it safe with Surf. Life Orb gives Gorebyss raw power; however, Pokemon who aren't immediately OHKOed by Gorebyss, such as Chansey, can switch in and cripple it with status. For this reason, Lum Berry is a potential alternative.</p>

<p>If Gorebyss is using Swift Swim, two to three Pokemon who can manually summon rain are required, as Drizzle Politoed is illegal alongside it. Good candidates who can get this job done easily are Jirachi, Bronzong, Magnezone, and Tornadus (whose Prankster ability gives Rain Dance a +1 priority), Zapdos, and Scizor. Jirachi and Scizor can also easily beat Tyranitar and Abomasnow, two major threats to rain teams. Thunder Wave support is appreciated, as Gorebyss is still in danger of being outsped by Pokemon wielding a Choice Scarf. Celebi and Jirachi are good options to provide this, as they also have good defensive synergy with Gorebyss. Speaking of synergy, it is wise to pair Gorebyss with Grass-type Pokemon who resist its weaknesses to Electric- and Grass-type moves. Ferrothorn can lay down entry hazards, threaten opposing bulky Water-types with Power Whip, and support Gorebyss with Leech Seed.</p>

<p>Priority users are a huge threat to Gorebyss. Scizor and Conkeldurr, for example, can easily take down a weakened Gorebyss after it suffers Life Orb recoil and possible entry hazard damage. Gliscor can take out Conkeldurr and survive Scizor's assaults. As a bonus, it can easily switch into Electric-type attacks aimed at Gorebyss. Prankster Pokemon can cripple Gorebyss with their priority Taunt and status moves. Luckily, Scizor can take on these menaces with Bullet Punch. Opposing Water-types can be a problem if Gorebyss does not choose to run Hidden Power Grass. Quagsire, Vaporeon, and Jellicent in particular can easily wall her. A Grass-type of your own, such as Virizion or Ferrothorn, can set up on these Pokemon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Gorebyss does not have too many alternate options. it can use Psychic and Shadow Ball, but a STAB&mdash;potentially rain-boosted&mdash;Surf will usually deal more damage. Confuse Ray is always a fun option, but Gorebyss is usually strapped for moves. Hydro Pump may be used for raw power, but it is extremely risky since its shaky accuracy makes Gorebyss vulnerable to attacks if it misses. Gorebyss has several other options it can pass along with or in place of Shell Smash, such as Aqua Ring, Agility, Iron Defense, and Amnesia. Amnesia deserves a special mention, as it patches up Gorebyss's less-than-average Special Defense stat. Finally, Gorebyss can manually summon rain in order to use Swift Swim without relying on Drizzle Politoed, but there are other Pokemon who can do this more easily thanks to their higher defense stats.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although, rain support is not required for any Gorebyss attempting to use Shell Smash for sweeping, removing it makes taking it down much easier. Ninetales can easily switch in and not even flinch with its stellar 100 base Special Defense, not to mention its neutrality to Water-type attacks due to Drought, and threaten Gorebyss with either Energy Ball or SolarBeam. Abomasnow has to be wary of Hidden Power Fire, but it easily can smash Gorebyss with its STAB Wood Hammer. Tyranitar absolutely hates Surf, but can easily prey on Gorebyss's -1 defenses. Hippowdon should avoid switching into Gorebyss altogether, but can come in on a less threatening Pokemon and remove the rain.</p>

<p>Gorebyss will always have a perfect counter, depending on which Hidden Power it chooses to run. If Hidden Power Grass is chosen, then Ferrothorn can easily switch in and proceed to set up Spikes, Thunder Wave it (or, if Gorebyss is running the Baton Pass set, Thunder Wave the receiver), or outright attack with Power Whip. If running Hidden Power Fire, Pokemon who are immune to Water-type attacks, such as Gastrodon and Vaporeon, can wall her. Speaking of walling, Blissey and Eviolite Chansey can sponge Gorebyss's attacks and cripple it with Thunder Wave or Toxic. However, great care must be taken if Gorebyss is on a rain team, as a +2 Life Orb and rain-boosted Surf can 2HKO Chansey after Stealth Rock damage. Pokemon with the Prankster ability, such as Whimsicott and Tornadus, can also cripple Gorebyss with their priority status attacks or prevent it from using Shell Smash with Taunt.</p>