[Overview]

<p>In a metagame where hazards are rampant and no switch is ever truly safe, Hitmontop is a 'mon with a mission: to seek out and eliminate any and all entry hazards on its side of the field. A niche Pokemon in every sense of the word, Hitmontop's ability to eliminate Stealth Rock, Spikes, and Toxic Spikes makes it the perfect supporter for switch-heavy teams that look to seize and abuse momentum with constant movement. Unlike most users of Rapid Spin, Hitmontop's access to Foresight means that not even opposing Ghost-types can shut down its spin, and its above average base 110 Special Defense lets it weather most anything that said Ghost-types will throw at it and complete its mission. It's not a Pokemon without flaws, however. Its mediocre Attack and terrible HP leave it ineffective both offensively and defensively, and it's prone to being set up on by dangerous opponents like Latias and Dragonite. Still, when used with precision, Hitmontop can easily clear the way for the rest of its team to move freely about the battle.</p>

[SET]
name: Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Close Combat
move 3: Foresight
move 4: Toxic / Stone Edge
item: Leftovers
ability: Intimidate
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Hitmontop's only viable set in the OU metagame. One of the key factors that makes this set effective is Hitmontop's access to Foresight and Intimidate, guaranteeing a Rapid Spin not only against Ghost-types, but also against most of the physical attackers in OU. Foresight paired with Rapid Spin is what separates Hitmontop from other spinners. Foresight grants him the ability to hit common spinblockers such as Jellicent with Rapid Spin, something Starmie, Tentacruel, and Forretress can't accomplish. Close Combat is his STAB move; even without a power-boosting item such as Life Orb, he still has the potential to inflict a lot of damage against some of OU's top threats. The fourth moveslot depends on your preference and situation. Toxic allows Hitmontop to handle Pokemon who can easily tank Close Combat, such as Dragonite. Stone Edge, however, gives Hitmontop better overall coverage, allowing him to go up against Pokemon such as Salamence.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Intimidate is an invaluable ability on this set, as it allows Hitmontop to go up against physical attackers such as Terrakion and Gyarados much more efficiently, and balances his Defense with his Special Defense. Max HP and Defense with Impish is recommended, as it allows Hitmontop to maintain a longer lifespan against physical attackers, as Hitmontop is a support Pokemon. However, if Defense isn't preferred, max Attack with an Adamant nature is an option if you decide to use Stone Edge in the final moveslot, or if you want Hitmontop to have more of an offense presense. It also allows Hitmontop to 2HKO Keldeo with Close Combat. and OHKO Thundurus-T with Stone Edge. However, the extra Attack doesn't truly benefit Hitmontop since OU is filled with Pokemon that can take advantage of his attacks. Overall, the defense variant of Hitmontop outweighs the offensive version for this set. Hi Jump Kick can be used over Close Combat if more power is necessary and the Defense drop is an issue. Hi Jump Kick can OHKO Breloom after Stealth Rock damage, something Close Combat can't do. However, it's a chance move; missing Hi Jump Kick and taking nasty recoil damage makes Hitmontop easier to KO. Rest could be used to give Hitmontop a recovery move. If Rest is used, a cleric such as Blissey is a great ally to him.</p>

<p>Hitmontop should be used on teams that suffer from entry hazards, as using Rapid Spin is Hitmontop's main purpose. Pokemon that are weak in their Defense benefit from Hitmontop's Intimidate to set up; examples include Volcarona and Moxie Gyarados. Dragonite, Blissey, Hippowdon, and other bulky Pokemon that can tank hits that Hitmontop can't—usually special ones—are greatly appreciated. Latias is a great partner to Hitmontop; she can take all the special attacks aimed at him as well as handle the rain or sun sweepers that are so common in OU. Espeon, Celebi, Chansey, and other Wish passers are useful for Hitmontop, as he doesn't have a reliable recovery move.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Technitop, or Technician Hitmontop, is an option to use. Fake Out, paired with Mach Punch and Pursuit, turns Hitmontop into an excellent revenge killer. However, the damage output isn't as desirable and fails to work if used incorrectly. Nonetheless, if used correctly, it is a powerful combination. Revenge is another usable STAB move for Hitmontop, as he is almost always outsped and Revenge can cause tremendous damage to those who attack him first. Counter is also an option. It requires more prediction, however, and is generally not as reliable with Hitmontop's lacking bulk. Focus Sash can be used with either of those moves to survive a hit. Aerial Ace and Earthquake are good filler moves to check Breloom and Toxicroak, respectively. The combination of Sucker Punch and Pursuit is great against Gengar, Latios, and Latias, trapping, and denting them with correct prediction.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to Hitmontop's low Speed and bulk, he is not that difficult to check. Anything that has a high Special Attack, such as Gengar, Volcarona, or Alakazam, can easily rid the match of him. Physical attackers such as Garchomp and Salamence, that don't take a lot of damage from Hitmontop and pack a strong Attack stat, can handle him as well. The latter must watch out for Stone Edge, however. Wearing down Hitmontop is the best way to go, as he has no reliable recovery moves. Bulky Pokemon, specifically Reuniclus and Gliscor, merely laugh at Hitmontop's attempt to harm them, as they can defeat him with Psychic and Acrobatics, respectively, and heal off damage with their recovery moves. Burning or poisoning Hitmontop is a great way to cripple him. Burn specifically can lower his Attack to render him useless and Toxic puts a timer on Hitmontop's pivoting capabilities. Keep in mind that Hitmontop can usually fulfill his goal of spinning away entry hazards, but KOing him is far from difficult.</p>