[Overview]

<p>In DPP, Huntail could only dream of being used in the OU tier. Luckily, BW gave Huntail a wonderful gift in the form of Shell Smash, making Huntail only one of three Pokemon with access to both Shell Smash and Baton Pass. Once you factor in a good Defense stat, a decent Special Defense stat, and a good typing, Huntail can pass boosts like there's no tomorrow. Unfortunately, Huntail is not without faults. Due to its shallow offensive movepool, Huntail is utterly outclassed by its counterpart, Gorebyss, in the role of a Shell Smash sweeper. Additionally, Huntail's terrible Speed stat means that it will struggle to outspeed a majority of the OU tier even after a Shell Smash.</p>

[SET]
name: SmashPass
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Waterfall
move 4: Substitute 
item: White Herb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 24 Def / 232 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is Huntail's best shot at competing with the big boys in OU. The combination of Shell Smash and Baton Pass is the main reason to use Huntail, as passing ridiculous boosts to a sweeper makes it extremely difficult to wall. Waterfall is a reliable STAB move that can be used to hit hard after a Shell Smash, while Substitute shields Huntail from status. Additionally, if Huntail is able to pass both a Substitute and Shell Smash to a teammate, it's usually game over for the opponent.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is tailored to outspeed every unboosted Pokemon in the OU tier after a Shell Smash. HP is maximized to allow Huntail to better take hits, while the rest of the EVs are put into Defense so that Huntail can take physical hits a little better. An Impish nature allows Huntail to take advantage of its good Defense stat and take physical hits even better. A White Herb is used to negate the stat drops of Shell Smash, ensuring that Huntail and the Shell Smash receiver retain their bulk.</p>

<p>Pokemon that can set up dual screens, such as Azelf and Espeon, make for excellent partners to Huntail, as the screens ensure that Huntail will be able to pass a Shell Smash to a teammate. Espeon is also notable for its Magic Boucne ability, which enables it to thwart phazing moves such as Roar and Whirlwind, one of the biggest threats to this set. Gorebyss might seem like an odd partner, but they can be used on the same team to pass Shell Smash boosts multiple times. Pokemon that are able to sweep a team after receiving a Shell Smash are excellent partners for this set; examples include Heatran, Jirachi, Nidoking, and Salamence, all of whom can rip apart a team after receiving a Shell Smash. Thanks to its Unaware ability, Quagsire can defeat most Shell Smash recipients lacking Grass-type attacks. The likes of Terrakion and Hydreigon can make short work of Quagsire with their powerful moves, while Haxorus can bypass Unaware with its Mold Breaker ability and make short work of Quagsire.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There aren't many other options Huntail can pull off successfully. Leftovers can be used to increase Huntail's longevity, but White Herb is needed to make sure that Huntail doesn't pass stat drops to its teammate. Huntail can attempt to utilize the Shell Smash boosts itself with a set of Shell Smash, Waterfall, Crunch, and Ice Fang, along with an EV spread of 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe, but it's outclassed by Cloyster in this role. The same applies to a mixed set of Shell Smash, Hydro Pump, Ice Beam, and Crunch. Huntail can Baton Pass Barrier and Iron Defense boosts, but Shell Smash boosts are generally preferred.</p>

<p>Ice Beam can be used over Substitute to hit the many Dragon-types in OU, but it's generally better to just stick with Substitute so that you can pass a Substitute and a Shell Smash to a teammate. Crunch can be used to hit Jellicent and Slowbro, both of whom wall Huntail. Double-Edge can be used to provide decent neutral coverage in conjunction with Waterfall. Aqua Tail can be used over Waterfall, but consistency is preferred to power. Huntail can use Sucker Punch, but priority is generally not needed as Huntail is already very fast after a Shell Smash. Confuse Ray might allow Huntail to stop phazers, such as Skarmory and Vaporeon, who ruin this set. </p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although Huntail is bulky, there are a number of threats that give it problems. Phazers such as Skarmory, Politoed, and Gyarados can use Whirlwind, Perish Song, or Roar respectively to prevent Huntail from passing Shell Smash or Substitute. Status inducers can cripple Huntail or its Shell Smash recipient; Breloom and Celebi deserve a special mention as they're able to break Huntail's Substitutes even if screens are in place, and then use either Spore or Thunder Wave on the Shell Smash recipient. Additionally, Celebi has access to Perish Song, which can ruin the SmashPass process. Most special attackers with a super effective STAB move, such as Virizion and Rotom-W, can take down Huntail. With dual screens support, however, Huntail can survive many of these super effective attacks. Fast users of Trick, such as Latios, can cripple Huntail if it manages to use Trick before Huntail uses Shell Smash. Fast users of Taunt, such as stallbreaker Mew and Prankster Sableye, destroy this set, as they can use Taunt before Huntail has a chance to set up. Quagsire's Unaware ability will neutralize any boosts Huntail's recipient has accumulated, making it a useful check.</p>