[Overview]

<p>Arguably the most effective of Eevee's myriad evolutionary paths, Jolteon possesses a blistering Speed stat of 130, giving it a distinct advantage in the OU metagame by allowing it to run circles around every unboosted Pokemon. Jolteon's 110 base Special Attack and access to STAB Thunder make it a powerhouse in the rain, Thunderbolt has plenty of power and classic reliability, and Volt Switch makes it easy to keep up the momentum that Jolteon's speed creates by coming into key threats, such as Keldeo, Thundurus-T, and Starmie. On top of all that, Jolteon's ability, Volt Absorb, allows it to absorb Thunders and Volt Switches from the opposing team.</p>

<p>That said, Jolteon isn't without its flaws. While Jolteon's Thunderbolt and Thunder gives it plenty of offensive presence, its coverage moves are weak and few in number, making it tough for Jolteon to take on the increasingly common Electric resistances that Thunder's power is forcing into the forefront. Furthermore, Jolteon has defenses resembling a wet paper bag, and while it can absorb a Thunder or Volt Switch, one wrong prediction could lead to a whole lot of pain and a useless Jolteon. Jolteon also struggles against common threats, such as Ferrothorn and Hippowdon, which stop it from spamming its powerful STABs. Additionally, Jolteon sees heavy competition in the form of Thundurus-T, which can offset its poor speed with Choice Scarf and Agility, while packing unparalleled power. Finally, Choice Scarf makes it easy to find a Pokemon capable of outspeeding Jolteon, making sweeps unlikely. Still, Jolteon has a combination of speed and power that lets it take on some of OU's more prominent threats, and while it's not a Pokemon for every team, it brings plenty to the table.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker 
move 1: Thunderbolt / Thunder
move 2: Volt Switch
move 3: Signal Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Ice
item: Choice Specs / Life Orb
ability: Volt Absorb
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Between its great type coverage, solid Special Attack, and blazing fast Speed, Jolteon has carved itself out a decent niche in the OU metagame. 130 base Speed, which allows it to outspeed common +1 threats such as Dragonite, makes Jolteon an excellent revenge killer without having to saddle itself with a Choice Scarf. While its lack of bulk makes it hard for Jolteon to get in, once it's there it can have a real impact.</p>

<p>Thunderbolt is Jolteon's main STAB move, hitting everything that doesn't resist it for great damage and easily sweeping late-game. If rain support is present, Jolteon gains access to the powerful Thunder, cranking up its damage output and giving a threat of Paralysis to anything that switches in. Volt Switch lets Jolteon seize momentum and scout out the opposing team. Signal Beam is Jolteon's best coverage move, hitting Celebi, Abomasnow, and Tyranitar, as well as Psychic-types such as Reuniclus. Hidden Power Ice completes Jolteon's pseudo-BoltBeam coverage, hitting Hippowdon and Landorus-T, as well as Dragon-types, such as Garchomp and Dragonite.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are simple, maximizing Speed and Special Attack. The item choice, however, is tough. Jolteon can use Choice Specs for the amazing power it provides, but it can also go for Life Orb to leverage its coverage. Expert Belt is also a decent choice- it can fake Choice Specs, and abuse Jolteon's excellent coverage. However, it comes at the cost of neutral Thunderbolt's power, which is something that Jolteon really depends on. Shadow Ball can be used over Signal Beam for more power against Ghost-types like Gengar. However, Signal Beam is obligatory alongside Thunder, as without it, Jolteon has a huge gaping weakness against Tyranitar. Finally, Baton Pass can be used on Life Orb sets to escape Tyranitar's Pursuit and scout against Ground-types or Volt Absorbers, but the damage from Volt Switch makes it a much more appealing option.</p>

<p>Jolteon is best paired with Pokemon that attract Electric-type attacks, especially Water-type Pokemon. Gyarados and Politoed are great teammates, as the former is immune to Ground, while the latter also provides eternal rain, allowing Jolteon to run Thunder instead of Thunderbolt. Breloom also works well, resisting Ground and being able to take out Chansey and Ferrothorn. U-turn users such as Landorus-T and Scizor are also great partners because they form a VoltTurn core with Jolteon. Landorus-T is also immune to Jolteon's only weakness, and has Intimidate to lessen the blow from incoming physical attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Hidden Power Ice
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
ability: Volt Absorb
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As a blazing fast revenge killer, lots of Pokemon are quick to get out of Jolteon's way. Substitute abuses this to the extreme, easing prediction and allowing Jolteon to pass its Substitutes to other members of the team. For instance, if the opposing Pokemon does switch out, Jolteon has basically earned free protection against the switch-in, giving it an opportunity to attack that foe or pass its Substitute to another teammate. If the foe does stay in, Jolteon can simply strike it down with the correct move. As this set takes two moveslots for Substitute and Baton Pass, Jolteon will have to resort to the classic pseudo BoltBeam combo, providing excellent coverage in Thunderbolt and Hidden Power Ice.</p>

<p>This set's largest advantage over other sets is its access to reliable scouting, easily taking momentum from any situation without risking Volt Switch being blocked by a Ground-type. More often than not, Jolteon can also find opportunities to pass Substitutes to one of its teammates, surely earning your team the upper hand. Beware, however, that once Jolteon's strategy has been revealed, the opponent will likely attempt to break Jolteon's Substitutes to decrease its health. Do not be overzealous with Substitute if you cannot afford to.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>This set can provide utility for a lot of teams, as Jolteon's excellent Speed, when maximized, allows it to outrun +1 Adamant Dragonite and Gyarados, filling a revenge killing role when needed. Passing Substitutes is a great support tactic for any attacker, giving the receiver protection and chances to set up. This set can even be used in Baton Pass chains; Stored Power is a decent attacking option in this case. Thunder is an obvious option for Drizzle teams, while Charge Beam can also be used for STAB to possibly pass special attack boosts. This, however, usually isn't necessary and makes Jolteon an initially less effective revenge killer. 

<p>The preferred item is Leftovers, which prevents residual damage from piling up with entry hazards and weather damage. Life Orb is the other choice, equipped in order to maximize Jolteon's power for its own sweep. Keep in mind that this, in turn, cuts down on the amount of Substitutes Jolteon can make, so Jolteon's item choice should come from testing with your own team. Magnet is another alternative that can provide extra STAB power for Jolteon, and it also both avoids the residual damage Life Orb would cause and disguises Jolteon as a Choiced sweeper. On the same note, Expert Belt can also be considered for providing power without recoil, though keep in mind that with only Thunderbolt and Hidden Power Ice in tow, Jolteon won't be hitting much super effectively. </p>

<p>Scizor is an ideal example of a teammate that appreciates being passed a Substitute; it can use it to switch in safely and set up on a vast amount of Pokemon that can wall this Jolteon, including Tyranitar, Ferrothorn, and Blissey. Another possible teammate would be Gyarados, which can complete the classic "GyaraJolt" combo, and discourages the opponent's attempts to catch Jolteon with a Ground-type attack. Substitute + Reversal Dugtrio is particularly useful to trap and kill the special walls that give Jolteon trouble. Generally, strong physical attackers have the best direct synergy with this Jolteon. It’s best if you bring this set out as early as possible, as it’s less effective the longer the game drags on, and there might not be as many opportunities to set up.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Jolteon's movepool is pretty bad, so it does not have many other options. Hidden Power Grass hits Mamoswine, Quasire, and Gastrodon, but of the three, only the first is common, and it also has Ice Shard, so hitting it on the switch is the only real viable option. Charge Beam and Work Up can be used to try a boosting sweeper role, but there are other Pokemon that do this better, such as Latias and Thundurus-T. Jolteon's Dream World ability, Quick Feet, is not bad, but having an Electric immunity is far more useful than an unreliable and unnecessary boost to Jolteon's Speed. Some other moves, such as Yawn, Wish, and Protect, can be used, but Jolteon can't afford to lose a coverage move to run them.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Blissey and Chansey are Jolteon's best counters, easily switching into anything it throws at them while recovering HP with Softboiled and Wish. Ferrothorn is also a great counter, as Jolteon can't do much to it while it sets up hazards. Mamoswine and Gastrodon don't fear Jolteon at all and can easily dispose of it with Earthquake, although they will have trouble if Jolteon is running Hidden Power Grass. Specially defensive Hippowdon takes little damage from anything Jolteon can throw at it and can KO back with Earthquake. Dugtrio can switch into Jolteon's STAB move and KO it with Earthquake, but Dugtrio is outsped, so make sure Jolteon is running Choice Specs. If Jolteon is locked into an Electric-type move, common Ground-types, such as Gliscor, Garchomp, and Landorus-T, can easily set up on it. Kyurem and Kyurem-B can also switch in on anything Jolteon throws at them and easily KO it back with the proper move. Since Jolteon is frail, it is easily felled by powerful priority moves, such as Breloom's Mach Punch and Dragonite's ExtremeSpeed. Choice Scarf users that outspeed Jolteon, such as Hydreigon and Salamence, can surprise the Lightning Pokemon and KO it with ease. In general, anything that can take a hit from Jolteon and hit it back with a STAB move will usually defeat it.</p>