[Overview]

<p>Jumpluff's stats give you an impression that it is an awful Pokemon to use in the metagame. It doesn't have any decent stat but Speed; which is rather high. However, it has a couple of things going for it. First, it has the ability Chlorophyll which lets it become the fastest Pokemon in the entire game if sunlight is up. Next, it has access to multiple strong support moves such as Leech Seed, Encore, Memento, and Sleep Powder. Lastly, it also has the surprising capability to pose a strong offensive threat thanks to the extremely powerful Acrobatics and the ability to learn Swords Dance, allowing it to clean up weakened teams. On the other hand, Jumpluff is extremely frail and needs to rely on resistances and immunities to switch in or annoy something successfully, especially with a weakness to Stealth Rock. Offensive variants need a Swords Dance boost to properly do any damage and are walled hard by Steel-types. Regardless, Jumpluff is still a decent Pokemon whether it is giving support or cleaning up teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Acrobatics
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Sleep Powder
move 3: Acrobatics
move 4: Seed Bomb
item: Flying Gem
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While you might laugh at Jumpluff's base 55 Attack, it will hit rather hard thanks to Swords Dance and the massive power that Acrobatics offers. Jumpluff also has no trouble outspeeding threats thanks to its massive Speed stat in the sun. Jumpluff really helps in the match-up against opposing sun teams as most sun sweepers are weak to its Flying-type STAB. Swords Dance lets Jumpluff boost its measly Attack stat to a decent level allowing it to sweep teams. Sleep Powder is the main means of getting that boost; otherwise, it'll be hard to sweep as Jumpluff is very frail. Sleep Powder also really helps neutralize a threat to your team. Acrobatics is this set's main way of attacking. With a Flying Gem, Acrobatics can reach a massive 165 Base Power before STAB, which mitigates Jumpluff's measly Attack. Seed Bomb is there for extra coverage, while dealing damage to Pokemon such as Rotom-W. It is also your main weapon against opposing weather starters as it can hit every one of them for super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Jumpluff's EV spread is rather self-explanatory; it uses an Adamant nature over a Jolly one in order to give it a needed boost in its Attack stat. However, Jolly can also be an option to help it outspeed foes such as Terrakion and Keldeo without sunlight, as well as outspeeding +2 Terrakion in the sunlight; two massive threats to sun teams. You may use Encore over Sleep Powder to capitalize on Jumpluff's resistances and immunities to set up while helping against opposing setup sweepers without having to rely on Sleep Powder's accuracy. You can also ditch the entire idea of Swords Dance and make a SubSeeding set that uses Acrobatics in order to KO Grass-types with a set such as Sleep Powder / Substitute / Leech Seed / Acrobatics. This is the best possible way to abuse Leech Seed on Jumpluff. Such a set can also consider dropping Seed Bomb for Substitute or Encore since Acrobatics is a powerful enough move to be the only attacking move in the set.</p>

<p>When it comes to partners, Ninetales is mandatory as sun is the only reason you would use Jumpluff in the first place; sun allows Jumpluff to outspeed every single relevant Pokemon in the metagame. When you run Jumpluff in the sun, it is recommended that your Ninetales has enough Speed investment to outspeed Mamoswine in order to cripple him with Will-O-Wisp or KO him with SolarBeam. Additionally, Jumpluff needs Steel-types removed before it can hope to sweep; while Sleep Powder helps with this, team support is necessary. Sun's mainstays Dugtrio and Volcarona work well, as does Magnezone, which is more effective at removing Skarmory and Ferrothorn. Rapid Spin support and entry hazard support are also very helpful to Jumpluff as it helps Jumpluff turn some 2HKOs into OHKOs as well as letting it switch in more times. Forretress fits in very well as it can also check Mamoswine. A very interesting Pokemon to run is Choice Scarf Heatran, as it can deal with most Steel-types and surprise-kill Mamoswine.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Sleep Powder
move 2: Encore
move 3: Memento
move 4: U-turn 
item: Leftovers
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Jolly
evs: 232 HP / 24 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Jumpluff has access to multiple support options and is the fastest user of those moves under the sun. It can be an incredible asset to a sun team as having the fastest Encore lets it stop a lot of threats to sun, such as Dragonite and Garchomp, as well as Sleep Powder. Jumpluff offers a lot of momentum on sun teams while using its resistances to be a decent annoying pivot. The main move of this set is Sleep Powder, which lets it speedily neutralize a threat for a majority of the match. Encore can destroy nearly any setup sweeper and can lock the likes of Keldeo into moves that barely do any damage to it, disrupting any momentum that they might have. Memento is also very helpful as it gives sweepers such as Volcarona a chance to set up very easily and can also stop an opposing sweep from time to time. U-turn is the main move that sustains momentum throughout the game, and can work especially well as Jumpluff will force a lot of switches.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Speed lets Jumpluff outspeed base 110s outside of the sun that carry Hidden Power Fire or Fighting, and Speed tie with those without. The rest is to provide it with optimal bulk, which allows it to live some rather powerful attacks, such as Salamence's Outrage. Stun Spore is another option you can run over U-turn. Stun Spore doesn't offer the strong momentum and requires significantly more prediction, but it may save you against Pokemon such as Dragon Dance Salamence after Sleep Clause has been activated. Toxic is another option to slowly cripple a Pokemon and slowly whittle its health down, but Jumpluff won't be staying in for too long, so it's not the greatest option.</p>

<p>Once again, Ninetales support is absolutely mandatory, and a spinner always helps as Jumpluff will be switching in and out annoying opposing Pokemon and providing teammates with setup opportunities. Entry hazard support is good as you can force a lot of switches thanks to Encore and Sleep Powder. This makes Forretress an extremely good partner for Jumpluff. The kind of momentum Jumpluff can offer, as well as Encore support, can also function very well with Gothitelle, who capitalize on Jumpluff's ability to gain momentum with U-turn and Encore while trapping opposing weather starters.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Aromatherapy is a decent option to heal teammates of status, but you really don't want to waste momentum and it doesn't offer as much utility compared to other moves such as Encore or Stun Spore. Sunny Day can help against opposing weathers regaining the upper hand should opponents switch into their weather starter to change the weather after Jumpluff uses Encore or Sleep Powder, but you are usually better of U-turning into Gothitelle or Dugtrio. Synthesis can also work on a support set, keeping Jumpluff alive while alleviating its Stealth Rock weakness, but it's unreliable and often unnecessary, so usually it's not the greatest option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>While Jumpluff might be annoying, it really isn't hard to stop. Any offensive variant is walled hard by most Steel-types, and can also be beat with priority attacks such as Mamoswine's Ice Shard and Scizor's Bullet Punch. It isn't too hard to deal with if you are able to sacrifice something to Sleep Clause, as it is frail and can't take most attacks unless it has defensive investment. Most super effective attacks can easily knock it out; a few examples are Heatran's Lava Plume, Terrakion's Stone Edge, and Keldeo's Hidden Power Ice. Finally, any user of Magic Bounce can completely stop all of Jumpluff's support options.</p>