[Overview]

<p>Despite having stats worthy of Ubers residency, Kyurem-B was determined by suspect test voters to be simply OU, falling just short of its White counterpart. It all comes down to a few reasons: average Speed and defensive typing, in addition to a less-than-ideal offensive movepool. These combined flaws make Kyurem-B extremely vulnerable to common super effective attacks from many faster Pokemon or priority users in OU. Its Ice typing also makes it annoyingly weak to all forms of entry hazards, which greatly lessens its effectiveness if not supported by entry hazard control. Kyurem-B's worst flaw, however, is its horrible physical movepool, which is basically limited to Fusion Bolt, Dragon Claw, and Outrage, often making it dependent on special moves for coverage. This isn't taking into account massive competition with other Dragon-types in OU, some of which boast a higher Speed stat and/or better movesets than Kyurem-B.</p>

<p>While these very flaws constantly threaten Kyurem-B's presence in OU, it is still very much an undeniable threat. Its typing still gives it good resistances to Water-, Electric-, and Grass-type attacks, which are valuable in a metagame dominated by rain. Kyurem-B is also one of the few Dragon-types not weak to Ice-type attacks, allowing it to easily dispatch Pokemon that are normally very reliant on Ice Beam, Ice Shard, or Hidden Power Ice for checking Dragon-types. These are all amplified by relatively good natural bulk, which stops Kyurem-B from being easily revenge killed. Given the right set of attacks and backed up by its amazingly massive base 170 Attack and 120 Special Attack stats, Kyurem-B can bring ruin to pretty much every Pokemon and every type of team in OU. One can even go as far as saying Kyurem-B is the overall most powerful and bulkiest Dragon-type in OU, and although it certainly isn't the best, it most certainly distinguishes itself.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute Attacker
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Fusion Bolt
move 3: Dragon Claw / Ice Beam
move 4: Ice Beam / Roost / Hidden Power Fire
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
nature: Lonely / Adamant
evs: 56 HP / 216 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>More often than not, Kyurem-B's presence causes the village peasants to run for the hills, only for their steel-clad cavalry, musketeers, dragons, and dragon slayers to suddenly switch in and ruin its rampage. Using Substitute with a couple of coverage moves, however, enables Kyurem-B to scout and bring ruin to these presumed "safe" switch-ins and counters. Thanks to its bulk, resistances to common Electric-, Grass-, and Water-type attacks, and a fearsome offensive presence, setting up a Substitute should be relatively easy, especially in the face of Starmie, Politoed, Jellicent, Rotom-W, and Celebi. Besides scouting for dangerous threats, Substitute also protects Kyurem-B from status and otherwise dire attacks. Beware that once this strategy has been revealed, the opponent will likely be eager to break future Substitutes, so Kyurem-B's health might be compromised.</p>

<p>This set is physically-based, so Fusion Bolt and Dragon Claw are the main moves on this set, dealing huge damage to almost every relevant OU threat, save specific Steel-types. Ice Beam can be used over Dragon Claw or as a third attacking move to KO physically bulky Ground-types such as Gliscor, Landorus-T, Donphan, and Hippowdon. It also serves as a better option against Grass-types such as Celebi and Breloom, which Dragon Claw fails to KO. For the last slot, Roost is particularly quite useful with Life Orb, allowing Kyurem-B to hit hard while staying healthy. Hidden Power Fire is a nice alternative to KO Scizor, Forretress, and Ferrothorn outside of the rain, and works especially well Kyurem-B has set up a Substitute to take a Bullet Punch from Scizor. If Kyurem-B uses a third attacking move, Leftovers is mandatory to recover health lost from taking damage and using Substitutes.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Kyurem-B to create 101 HP Substitutes, so its Substitutes cannot be broken by a single Seismic Toss or Night Shade. It also guarantees that Kyurem-B can outrun all Pokemon on the positive base 80 Speed range and below, including Mamoswine, Dragonite, and Adamant Lucario. The remaining are placed in Attack to make Kyurem-B as powerful as possible, although in exchange for a mere 16 EVs from Attack, its Speed can be maximized. Investment in Special Attack is hardly necessary, as Ice Beam and Hidden Power Fire are only used to hit specific targets. If using a special move, a Lonely nature is preferred to avoid lowering the power of special attacks; otherwise, use an Adamant nature. Other moves to consider for this set include Earth Power and Blizzard. Earth Power is a specific option used only for Heatran and Magnezone, although Fusion Bolt can simply 2HKO Heatran and Dragon Claw is a more powerful option against Ground-weak threats such as Tyranitar and Terrakion. Blizzard is a stronger option that should only be used in hail, although Ice Beam is accurate in every weather, and is thus basically foolproof.</p>

<p>Since this set's success lies in Substitute, Kyurem-B needs to avoid passive damage to set up and attack without risk. Entry hazards are especially annoying because they lower Kyurem-B's health and limit the number of Substitutes it can make, so entry hazard control is definitely required. This can be achieved with a Rapid Spin user such as Starmie, Tentacruel, and Forretress, all of which sport a resistance to at least one of Kyurem-B's weaknesses. Pairing Kyurem-B with a Magic Bounce user also works, although both users fall prey easily to Tyranitar, a common user of Stealth Rock. Speaking of which, sandstorm is also detrimental to Kyurem-B's health, so it is a good idea to pack a weather inducer to summon beneficial weather. Kyurem-B works particularly well in hail, where it can utilize a perfectly accurate STAB Blizzard and hit harder with Hidden Power Fire if rain isn't present. Abomasnow can also easily beat Politoed, Hippowdon, and weakened Tyranitar in a weather war. Be wary that using Kyurem-B and Abomasnow on the same times doubles up on Rock- and Fighting- type weaknesses, so both must be provided with outstanding defensive synergy from teammates. If hail isn't your team's forte, Kyurem-B can also fit on sun- or rain-based teams, where it can be used as a countermeasure against most opposing weather teams. Sun, in particular, offers offensive backup against Ferrothorn and other troublesome Steel-types in the form of boosted Fire-type attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Outrage
move 2: Dragon Claw
move 3: Fusion Bolt
move 4: Ice Beam / Earth Power
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Kyurem-B's average Speed often makes it vulnerable to deadly attacks from faster Pokemon, but everybody knows the solution to such a crisis: a Choice Scarf! Thanks to the boosted Speed and the ridiculous power behind its attacks, it can act as both a decent revenge killer and a mid- to late-game cleaner. The main reason to use Kyurem-B over similar and faster Choice Scarf users such as Salamence and Terrakion is that it packs much more wallbreaking power at the start thanks to its higher base Attack stat and Dragon-type STAB while still outrunning many relevant offensive threats. Kyurem-B can even ignore Dragonite's Multiscale ability, OHKOing it even at full health. With these things in mind, Kyurem-B will have little problem mowing down both offensive and defensive teams with Steel-types out of the way.</p>

<p>In situations where physical Dragon-type STAB won't do the trick, Kyurem-B should use Fusion Bolt along with either Ice Beam or Earth Power. Fusion Bolt is a no-risk option that's stronger against Flying- or Water-types than Outrage and is also especially useful if physical contact can be detrimental, such as against Flame Body Volcarona. The choice between Ice Beam and Earth Power depends on which threats are more dangerous to the team. Ice Beam is generally a better option in terms of coverage, covering bulky Ground-, Grass-, and Flying-type threats and ensuring Gliscor can't attempt to stall the faster Kyurem-B out with Substitute and Protect. Because Fusion Bolt no longer has the power to 2HKO Heatran, Earth Power can instead be used to deal a larger amount of damage to it. Keep in mind that Fusion Bolt is still a stronger option against Jirachi, despite the fact that Jirachi is weak to Earth Power.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature is recommended on this set to outrun or tie with as many opponents as possible, especially boosted threats such as +1 Adamant Haxorus, +1 Modest Volcarona, and the occasional Choice Scarf Kyurem and Rotom-W, and maximum investment in Speed is also a requirement for this reason. If these threats are of no concern to your team, Kyurem-B can instead use an Adamant nature to boost its overall physical power and still outrun all +1 Gyarados and Dragonite. Investment in Attack is obviously beneficial; however, since Kyurem-B's Attack stat is already naturally high, it can afford to go bulky and sacrifice EVs, unlike other Choice Scarf users. The EVs can be relocated from Attack or Speed to a defensive stat of your choice besides HP (because Kyurem-B also happens to have naturally high HP as well), although too much investment could be detrimental offensively. A decent benchmark is 188 Speed with an Adamant nature, allowing Kyurem-B to revenge kill threats as fast as Modest Choice Scarf Rotom-W.</p>

<p>A novel option that Kyurem-B can use to some sort of effect is Fling. Using Fling allows Kyurem-B to switch moves once its Choice Scarf is gone, which is beneficial if it's required to alternate between Dragon Claw and Fusion Bolt (especially when slower Steel-types are present). Most of the time, this will not be the case because of teammates and Outrage's locking side-effect, and Kyurem-B will miss the coverage offered by Ice Beam or Earth Power.</p>

<p>As Kyurem-B is using either Dragon Claw or Outrage most of the time, it is recommended to remove Steel-types to make cleaning up faster. Kyurem-B is especially in trouble if Ferrothorn, Forretress, and other physically defensive Steel-types are present, because they sponge all of the attacks on this set with ease. Therefore, Magnezone, Magneton, or Gothitelle can make good partners since they can eliminate (or perhaps Trick a Choice Scarf to, in Gothitelle's case) these Steel-types. If the conventional trap-and-kill route doesn't work for its team, using offensive Pokemon with Fire-, Fighting- and Ground-type attacks is a nice alternative. In this case, attackers such as mixed Hydreigon, Terrakion, and even Infernape are beneficial, because they can break through most types of teams with the power and coverage they have. Finally, since Kyurem-B is vulnerable to getting revenge killed by Moxie Choice Scarf Salamence, it would be wise to have insurance against it. A physically defensive Steel-type of your own does well by absorbing boosted Outrages; choices for this include but are not limited to Jirachi, Forretress, Cobalion, and Skarmory, all of whom also offer additional support in the form of Stealth Rock or, as in Forretress's case, Rapid Spin.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Outrage
move 2: Dragon Claw
move 3: Fusion Bolt
move 4: Ice Beam / Sleep Talk
item: Choice Band
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Say hello to the world's most powerful Outrage, and possibly the most powerful Choice Band user to date in the history of Pokemon. While Kyurem-B certainly isn't the best Choice Band user due to its decidedly average coverage, it makes up for this flaw through pure wallbreaking power, all thanks to that legendary Attack stat. In any case, the battle plan is simple: just click Outrage and witness destruction unfold. Even Steel-types like Jirachi, Heatran, and Metagross find themselves 2HKOed by Outrage. Obviously, there are situations where being locked into Outrage is very risky or unnecessary, so Dragon Claw is a safer and more reliable alternative. If the opponent's Steel-types are still present, Fusion Bolt should be enough to 2HKO many of them, save Ferrothorn, while taking care of Water- and Flying-types more reliably than Outrage overall. In the last slot, Ice Beam is used simply to KO Gliscor and Landorus-T, both of whom might attempt to sponge and stall out physical attacks. It also 2HKOes Hippowdon, eliminating the need to use Outrage on it. Sleep Talk is an equally useful option that allows Kyurem-B to absorb sleep from common sleep inducers such as Venusaur, Amoonguss, Roserade, Smeargle, and Breloom, then retaliate. It should be noted that Kyurem-B cannot be locked into Outrage when using Sleep Talk, so it can switch out if asleep.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximized Attack and Speed with either nature allows Kyurem-B to hit hard and fast as possible. While Kyurem-B can reach its maximum offensive potential with an Adamant nature, a Jolly nature allows it to outrun and beat certain threats before they can cripple or attack it. Assuming maximum Speed, such targets include Ninetales, Rotom-W, Haxorus, Hydreigon, Lucario, and opposing Kyurem. While both natures lower the power of Ice Beam, it is still powerful enough to OHKO its small selection of targets, so one need not worry about using a hindering nature.</p>

<p>For better or worse, the technical fun doesn't stop here! Thanks to Kyurem-B's naturally high Attack stat, one might choose to invest in a stat other than Attack. While doing so takes away some power, it should be noted that with a neutral nature and zero investment, Kyurem-B boasts an Attack stat of 376, which is statistically more powerful than a fully invested Jolly Salamence or Terrakion. That being said, creative liberties can taken with the EV distribution. For instance, a spread of 252 HP / 96 Atk / 28 Def / 60 SpD / 72 Spe with an Adamant nature allows Kyurem-B to survive a list of specific attacks at full health: an unboosted Terrakion's Close Combat, Focus Blasts coming from Choice Specs Tornadus and Life Orb Thundurus-T, a Secret Sword from Choice Specs Keldeo, and two Hydro Pumps from Choice Specs Politoed. Surviving these attacks, of course, requires entry hazards to be removed, so Rapid Spin support is mandatory with this spread. Outside of this, Kyurem-B's Speed can also be modified to beat a specific Speed tier. A good benchmark is 148 Speed EVs, which beats max Speed Adamant Dragonite and Jolly Breloom. One can even opt to not invest in either Attack or Speed at all, and instead invest in either Defense or Special Defense to create a bulky, hard-hitting tank. Even with the lowered Speed, Kyurem-B is still fast enough to outrun many defensive threats, so one shouldn't be afraid to get creative with EVs.</p>

<p>There are a couple of ways to use this set depending on the team's playstyle, but as odd as it might sound, it is often best played in a reckless manner. A STAB Outrage or Dragon Claw coming from Choice Band Kyurem-B will obviously rip a few holes, so using these moves early-game could significantly soften the opponent's team. Even if Kyurem-B gets revenge killed, it has likely already done its job by eliminating or weakening a significant part of the other team. If Team Preview shows physically defensive Steel-types or potential revenge killers, it is probably best to play it safe and abstain from Outrage unless using it is absolutely necessary. Unlike other sets, Rapid Spin support and Steel-type trapping aren't totally necessary (but still very helpful) due to this set's reckless nature and sheer power. It is still recommended to pack offensive support against Steel-types like Ferrothorn or Skarmory, since a misprediction could fatally spoil Kyurem-B's wallbreaking streak.</p> 

[SET]
name: Substitute Shuffler
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Roost
move 3: Dragon Tail
move 4: Hone Claws / Ice Beam
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful / Sassy
evs: 252 HP / 64 Def / 136 SpD / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Considering Kyurem-B's hyper offensive nature, it's not hard to raise an eyebrow at this set. One shouldn't be quick to dismiss it, however; with the massive amount of defensive and even offensive threats that have trouble hurting Kyurem-B, this set can potentially become a major menace and annoyance, especially to stall and balanced teams. The game plan is as follows: Kyurem-B should switch into a threat that can't damage it heavily (preferably a Water-, Grass- or Electric-type, or a Pokemon locked into one move), then use Substitute to prevent dire damage and status. From there, Kyurem-B can do one of two things: use Roost to heal off damage and stall the opposition, or set up and attack with Hone Claws and Dragon Tail. With one boost up its sleeve, Dragon Tail becomes perfectly accurate and more deadly, despite the negative priority and the possible presence of Steel-types. Ice Beam can be used over Hone Claws if Substitute + Protect Gliscor proves to be a problem, and can be used as a secondary attack if Dragon Tail's negative priority is disadvantageous. Keep in mind that Kyurem-B is usually faster than common phazers such as Skarmory, Heatran, and Gyarados; therefore, Kyurem-B's Dragon Tail will hit and force the opponent out first if both parties use a phazing move on the same turn.</p>

<p>This Kyurem-B should always operate behind a Substitute if possible to avoid being revenge killed or crippled by Trick or status. If the opponent successfully switches to a check with Kyurem-B not behind a Substitute, it is highly advised to abandon the boosts and switch out immediately. If behind one, however, simply use Dragon Tail to phaze it, badly disrupting the other team's momentum. This is especially deadly on a team utilizing multiple entry hazards, ensuring Kyurem-B's checks and counters won't live very long if switched in carelessly.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is a specialized recipe that discourages substitutions and deviations; specifically, it prevents Kyurem-B's Substitutes from being broken by specific attacks. The given Speed EVs allow Kyurem-B to outrun max Speed neutral-natured Breloom and Politoed, but 16 EVs can be relocated from Defense to Speed to outrun Jolly Tyranitar. If Ice Beam is used, a Sassy nature must be used to preserve its power. If such is the case, a spread of 252 HP / 92 Def / 136 SpD / 28 Spe should allow Kyurem-B to at least outrun 0 Speed Rotom-W and use Substitute before it can burn with Will-O-Wisp. Below is a list of calculations demonstrating how monstrous this Kyurem-B's bulk really is:</p>

<ul class="damage_calculation">
<li>0 SpA Heatran Lava Plume vs. 252 HP / 136+ SpD Kyurem-B: 20.48 - 24.44%</li>
<li>252 SpA Life Orb Starmie Ice Beam vs. 252 HP / 136+ SpD Kyurem-B: 21.14 - 25.11%</li>
<li>0 SpA Starmie Psyshock vs. 252 HP / 64 Def Kyurem-B: 17.84 - 21.14%</li>
<li>0 SpA Politoed Ice Beam vs. 252 HP / 136+ SpD Kyurem-B: 11.89 - 14.09%</li>
<li>252+ SpA Life Orb Celebi Earth Power vs. 252 HP / 136+ SpD Kyurem-B: 22.24 - 26.43%</li>
<li>252 SpA Choice Specs Jolteon Signal Beam vs. 252 HP / 136+ SpD Kyurem-B: 20.7 - 24.44%</li>
<li>252 SpA Choice Specs Keldeo Secret Sword vs. 252 HP / 64 Def Kyurem-B: 85.9 - 100.88%</li>
<li>252 Atk Choice Scarf Terrakion Close Combat vs. 252 HP / 64 Def Kyurem-B: 80.61 - 95.15%</li>
</ul>

<p>As with all Kyurem-B sets, this one suffers from passive damage, but even more so because of its reliance on Substitute. If Toxic Spikes are present and Kyurem-B becomes poisoned, the poison damage will limit the amount of free time Kyurem-B has to cycle between Substitute, Roost, and Dragon Tail. Therefore, it is highly advised to pair it with a grounded Poison-type to absorb the Toxic Spikes if Rapid Spin support is unavailable. Nidoqueen certainly stands out because it offers additional defensive support in the form of Toxic Spikes, Stealth Rock, and its valuable resistances to the Rock- and Fighting-type attacks aimed at Kyurem-B. Tentacruel is still a good choice in this case as it offers Rapid Spin support to fend off other hazards besides Toxic Spikes. Sandstorm is also detrimental towards Kyurem-B's survival, so pairing it up with either Drizzle Politoed (to reduce damage from Fire-type attacks) or Abomasnow (to add to the amount of damage non-Ice-types will take) can instantly solve the problem.</p>

<p>As mentioned before, this set can be very deadly if used in conjunction with entry hazards, even though it doesn't need them most of the time. Skarmory is a prime candidate to consider, being able to lay out multiple layers of hazards early-game without much trouble. Notably, Skarmory can also take on several Kyurem-B checks and counters comfortably. Forretress is another hazard user that offers a valuable resistance to Dragon-type moves, in addition to Rapid Spin support. For an odd yet exceptionally viable twist on teammates, Golurk (of all things) fares very well with this set; not only does it counter Terrakion thanks to its convenient typing, but it can also set up Stealth Rock and attract Water- and Grass-type attacks for Kyurem-B to switch into.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Based Mixed Attacker
move 1: Ice Beam
move 2: Earth Power / Draco Meteor
move 3: Hidden Power Fire / Draco Meteor
move 4: Outrage / Dragon Claw
item: Life Orb / Leftovers
nature: Mild / Hasty
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is arguably Kyurem-B's most powerful set, capable of bringing down nearly any threat it comes across thanks to its high offensive stats and coverage in four moveslots. Many physical walls coming in to sponge a predicted Fusion Bolt or Dragon-type move will find themselves getting heavily damaged—if not OHKOed—by a strong special attack. This set doesn't need to stay on the battlefield for long; it only needs a couple of chances to switch in and destroy any opposition, so it's almost entirely self-reliant.</p>

<p>Ice Beam is the main move due to STAB and its fantastic coverage against common Grass-, Ground-, and Dragon-types in OU. Threats that resist Ice Beam, especially Steel-types, should be covered by Earth Power and/or Hidden Power Fire. Earth Power is mainly for KOing Jirachi and Heatran, while Hidden Power Fire ensures Kyurem-B can safely dispatch Ferrothorn, Forretress, and Scizor outside of the rain. Draco Meteor is worth considering because of the massive power it offers, and using it also allows Kyurem-B to use a Dragon-type move without resorting to Outrage. It can replace either Earth Power or Hidden Power Fire if either is unnecessary. The last slot is reserved for a physical Dragon-type move; Outrage powers through several specially defensive Pokemon, especially Blissey, Chansey, and Gastrodon among others. Dragon Claw is the next best alternative, but has notably less power against Chansey and requires a Life Orb to make up for a loss in power.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Since this set is specially based and Kyurem-B's Attack is already naturally high, it simply requires maximized Special Attack and Speed to do the job. The nature is a matter of power versus Speed; if outrunning threats such as Haxorus, Hydreigon, Ninetales, and Jolly Lucario is mandatory, choose the Hasty nature. Otherwise, the Mild nature is preferred for maximum offensive potential. Investing a slight amount of EVs in Attack will not gain any new KOs of note. A sturdier alternative for this set is 120 HP / 252 SpA / 136 Spe with a Modest nature, which makes Kyurem-B significantly more bulky at the cost of physical power and Speed (now being only able to outrun Adamant Mamoswine and Dragonite). Other boosting items include Draco Plate and Expert Belt, both of which increase Kyurem-B's attacking power without depleting its health. A Chople Berry, Babiri Berry, or Haban Berry allows Kyurem-B to lure in certain attackers (such as Keldeo, Breloom, Scizor, and Salamence), survive their attacks, and retaliate with the appropriate move at the cost of attacking power. Using any of these items makes for an efficient offensive bluff. As for attacking moves, Fusion Bolt can go over the options in the third slot as an alternative physical attack without spamming Dragon Claw or Outrage, although at this point Kyurem-B is better off using its physically based sets. Its main benefit is hitting defensive Water-types hard without having to resort to the less effective Outrage. Roost compromises coverage, but allows Kyurem-B to live longer, especially as it is easily worn down by entry hazards and Life Orb recoil. Finally, Focus Blast is a nice coverage option to hit Ferrothorn in the rain and OHKO all Tyranitar not holding a Chople Berry.</p>

<p>This set aims to debilitate integral parts of the opposing team before switching out or fainting. To make its job easier and increase its longevity, Rapid Spin support is beneficial, so Starmie, Tentacruel, and Forretress are still good teammates. Additionally, if Kyurem-B uses one of the resistance Berries, it can be paired with offensive partners that appreciate the removal of certain Pokemon from the game. Keep in mind that using these Berries isn't necessarily the best way to get rid of threats, so having alternative ways to deal with Salamence, Terrakion, Keldeo, and other revenge killers would be ideal.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Based Mixed Attacker
move 1: Dragon Claw / Outrage
move 2: Fusion Bolt
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Roost / Earth Power
item: Life Orb
nature: Lonely / Hasty
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is yet another mixed attacking set, which aims to break down a different selection of targets with dedicated investment in Attack and a different set of moves. Thanks to the increased power of physical attacks, Dragon Claw, Outrage, and Fusion Bolt are the main moves, while special attacks should only be used when required. Fusion Bolt notably 2HKOes common defensive Steel-types, especially specially defensive Jirachi and Heatran, eliminating the need for Earth Power. Dragon Claw by itself is already powerful enough to dent, if not OHKO, most non-Steel-types, so it is generally favored over Outrage despite the power difference. Using Outrage allows Kyurem-B to always net an OHKO on all Blissey, and often 2HKO some Steel-types despite their resistance to it. This, of course, comes at the cost of freedom, leaving Kyurem-B vulnerable to revenge killers and healthy Steel-types. As for special attacks, Ice Beam is still a required option, because, even without investment, it OHKOes many physically defensive Ground-types and can still muscle past all variants of Celebi.</p>

<p>The last slot is up to preference and team support. Since this set is physically based, Ferrothorn and Forretress wall Kyurem-B more easily, making Hidden Power Fire a good option to deal with them outside of the rain. With proper prediction, it also kills off its arch-nemesis Scizor on the switch-in. This set also suffers residual damage from Life Orb recoil and entry hazards, which Roost can easily patch up at a moment's notice. Due to its good resistances and fearsome offensive presence, Kyurem-B can find many opportunities to heal off damage. Finally, Earth Power is still Kyurem-B's best weapon against Magnezone, which resists all three main attacks.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are as simple as on the previous set; simply maximize Attack and Speed with either nature, depending on your preference for Speed or power. Even with minimal investment, Kyurem-B's Special Attack is still more than enough to KO the necessary threats. While the Lonely nature maximizes Kyurem-B's incredible physical offense, the Hasty nature allows it to potentially outrun and KO threats in odd Speed tiers. Such threats include max Speed Adamant Haxorus, Modest Hydreigon, Timid Rotom-W, Jolly Lucario, and the standard defensive Ninetales.</p>

<p>The other items mentioned on the previous set are still usable here for situational instances, such as Haban Berry for luring in opposing Dragon-types. This set, however, relies heavily on the boost offered by Life Orb, especially considering that without it, 252/0 Jirachi cannot be 2HKOed by Fusion Bolt. As far as other moves are concerned, Dragon Tail is worth mentioning as it can stack up entry hazard damage on switch-ins, although Kyurem-B's general vulnerability, in combination with Dragon Tail's negative priority, makes this a lesser option. Blizzard, as always, can be used over Ice Beam if used in Hail, while Focus Blast hits Ferrothorn super effectively in any weather.</p>

<p>While this set doesn't need much in terms of defensive support, keep in mind that due to its hyper offensive nature, it still heavily appreciates Rapid Spin users as it can be easily worn down. Starmie, Tentacruel, and Forretress are as usual the best choices for this because they sport decent defenses and a couple of resistances to common super effective attacks aimed at Kyurem-B. This Kyurem-B also notably functions best as a powerful early-game wallbreaker that should vaporize as many significant threats as possible. Sweepers and other offensive Pokemon that appreciate the elimination or weakening of walls include—but are definitely not limited to—Calm Mind Latias, Latios, Swords Dance Lucario, Keldeo, Jirachi, and Celebi. Notice that Kyurem-B pairs well with special sweepers in general due to its coverage, and that it doesn't necessarily have to stay alive for a majority of the match.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As barren a wasteland as Kyurem-B's movepool is, its offensive and defensive stats are good enough to find alternate uses of what is available to it. For example, Kyurem-B's underrated base 120 Special Attack stat and fairly diverse special movepool are more than enough to make up a dedicated special attacking set with either Life Orb or Choice Specs. Using a purely special set also maximizes coverage, leaving little room for Kyurem-B to get walled or stalled out thanks to any combination of Earth Power, Focus Blast, Hidden Power Fire, and Roost. Arguably and ironically, such a set could be pulled off better by Kyurem, which sports a slightly higher Special Attack stat, although Kyurem-B's reputation as a deadly physical attacker can often net many surprise kills.</p>

<p>On the physical side, Kyurem-B has alternative physical attacks available to it, including Stone Edge, Zen Headbutt, Iron Head, and Shadow Claw. These moves, however, offer over-specific or redundant coverage that is purely outclassed by the coverage given from special attacks. Since Game Freak was too stupid to give Kyurem-B a good physical Ice-type attack, it can resort to Freeze Shock as a filler option, although using it leaves Kyurem-B vulnerable for a turn and allows the opponent to take advantage of this opportunity by going for a KO or setting up. Interestingly enough, a Choice Band Freeze Shock can OHKO Ferrothorn. Kyurem-B can also use Hone Claws to boost its physical power and the accuracy of Blizzard, but its typing and Speed leaves it very little opportunities to set up successfully.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Saying Kyurem-B has no counters would be a dramatic exaggeration. Regardless, due to its ridiculously high offensive stats and available coverage options, it practically has no hard counters or switch-ins per se. Players must therefore rely on soft counters to combat specific sets, all of which have their own set of checks and counters. The closest thing to a complete stop are physically defensive variants of Jirachi, which sports the overall bulk to take both special and physical attacks from Kyurem-B. In return, Jirachi can either paralyze with Thunder Wave or Body Slam, or simply chip off Kyurem-B's health with Iron Head or Flash Cannon. With entry hazards and hail in effect, however, every Jirachi can get 2HKOed by either Life Orb Fusion Bolt or Earth Power. Similarly, Ferrothorn is either resistant or neutral to Kyurem-B's main moves, and can reply with Thunder Wave, Leech Seed, or Gyro Ball. Non-Gyro Ball variants struggle pathetically against Substitute sets, and Kyurem-B can use either Hidden Power Fire or Focus Blast to dispatch it quickly. Ferrothorn can also easily be worn down from taking repeated Ice Beams, Blizzards, and other attacks from Kyurem-B's teammates. All in all, physically defensive Steel-types (except for Skarmory due to its weakness to Fusion Bolt) can handle physically-based sets well, although a coverage move like Earth Power or Focus Blast can prematurely end the likes of Forretress, Cobalion, and Metagross.</p>

<p>Checking Kyurem-B is a far more common and arguably more practical way of dealing with it, as its typing and average Speed leave it vulnerable to a host of common threats in OU. Specifically, Kyurem-B is revenge killed easily by attacks from faster enemies; examples include Draco Meteor and Dragon Pulse from Latios, Latias, and Hydreigon; Outrage from Haxorus and Salamence; Close Combat or Stone Edge from the Swords of Justice; Secret Sword from Keldeo; Iron Head from Jirachi; and Focus Blast from Tornadus and Alakazam. The secondary Ice-typing also makes it weak to common priority moves, especially Mach Punch from Breloom and Conkeldurr and Bullet Punch from Scizor and Metagross. If Kyurem-B mispredicts with an ineffective move or is locked into Outrage, it becomes easy pickings for the aforementioned attackers. These Pokemon, however, must tread carefully when it comes to the Choice Scarf set, Substitute sets, or sets with resistance Berries, because Kyurem-B can then ruin common checks and switch-ins.</p>

<p>Finally, entry hazards in general impair Kyurem's ability to sponge hits and make it more prone to revenge killing. Even with uninvested defenses, Kyurem-B still has enough bulk to survive random attacks at full health. Even Choice Band Scizor stands no chance at OHKOing 4/0 Kyurem-B, managing only 82.86 - 98.2% with Bullet Punch, while Substitute Hydreigon only stands a fair 25% chance of an OHKO with Dragon Pulse. Laying out Stealth Rock or at least one layer of spikes ultimately makes these OHKOes happen. Toxic Spikes also get a good mention, as they add to the amount of residual damage offensive sets suffer and also limit the number of times Kyurem-B can cycle between Roost and Substitute.</p>