[Overview]

<p>Lilligant might at first seem outclassed by other sun sweepers such as Venusaur and Volcarona, having a virtually nonexistent offensive movepool and inferior defenses, but with access to Quiver Dance, this is not the case. When paired with Chlorophyll, Lilligant has a great niche as the fastest Quiver Dance user in the game with sun up. Her high 110 base Special Attack makes boosted attacks hit extremely hard, and with a 90 base Speed, she outspeeds the most common Chlorophyll user, Venusaur. Lilligant even gets Sleep Powder, which helps her set up against troublesome opponents like Choice Band Tyranitar and Tentacruel. Even though Lilligant's coverage is limited, with Giga Drain and her Hidden Power of choice being essentially all she gets, Lilligant has great potential as a sweeper when used correctly, and underestimating what she can do compared to other sun sweepers is a dire mistake.

[SET]
name: Quiver Dance
move 1: Quiver Dance
move 2: Sleep Powder
move 3: Giga Drain
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Ice
item: Life Orb / Lum Berry / Leftovers
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Modest
evs: 60 Def / 252 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lilligant has use at pretty much every point in the game, being able to put something to sleep early and sweep mid- or late-game. Unlike Fire-type sweepers commonly found on sun teams, she is excellent against rain, as Water-type sweepers fall to Giga Drain and the possible Dragonite and Thundurus-T lose to Hidden Power Ice. Sand does not like facing Lilligant either, especially if she is running Hidden Power Fire, as it often utilizes many Rock-, Ground-, and Steel-types weak to Lilligant's coverage. That is the main thing that's unique about Lilligant, as she is a sun sweeper but can smash apart other weather teams, giving her a somewhat unique position on sun teams.</p>

<p>Quiver Dance is among the best boosting moves in the game, only eclipsed somewhat by Shell Smash. It boosts Lilligant's two best stats, Special Attack and Speed, making it perhaps the most tailor-made Pokemon to use Quiver Dance other than Volcarona. Sleep Powder tends to help out a lot with setting up, as successfully cripples a Pokemon for at least one turn. Sleep Powder is particularly useful against targets that Lilligant needs a boost or two to KO, such as Tentacruel or Tyranitar in sand. Giga Drain is a great STAB move, especially because it helps mitigate the damage from Life Orb via recovering Lilligant's health when she attacks, as well as boasting a decent Base Power. The choice of Hidden Power has already been discussed above, basically boiling down to whether you want her to perform better against sand or rain. Also, because Lilligant is best on sun teams, the rest of the team should have a method to handle Steel-types, so Hidden Power Fire isn't always necessary.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs allow Lilligant to outspeed Choice Scarf Latios, Terrakion, and Keldeo in the sun, as well as neutral base 80s and positive base 70s without any boost, and Jolteon and Aerodactyl at +1 without a Chlorophyll boost. Additionally, she gains a good chance of surviving Mamoswine's Ice Shard at full health and can proceed to kill it off. Even if you don't manage to finish it off, Mamoswine becomes heavily weakened and setup bait for Air Balloon Volcarona. As for the item, Life Orb is preferred for the great increase in power, but Lum Berry can help for switching into Toxic Spikes and setting up on Jirachi attempting to paralyze Lilligant if she is running Hidden Power Fire. Leftovers can also be used for passive recovery, giving her a chance at getting off more than one or two more hits after surviving an Ice Shard from Mamoswine, though Giga Drain recovers her health and KOes Mamoswine, limiting the use of Leftovers.</p>

<p>Other Hidden Powers can be used to hit certain targets. Hidden Power Rock can be run solely for Volcarona, while maintaining coverage against Flying-types such as Dragonite, Salamence, and Thundurus-T, as well as super effective coverage against Gyarados and hitting Fire-types that resist Giga Drain. Hidden Power Ground can be used to get past Heatran, while also hitting Fire-types as Hidden Power Rock does. The latter has much more limited application, but at the same time is very potent against the aforementioned targets. Lilligant can also run Sunny Day to function as a backup sun setter and to make her own sweep easier, but struggles to find a moveslot for it, especially because it would be competing with Sleep Powder, a vital move on Lilligant. This is not to mention that Lilligant doesn't always need sun to function.</p>

<p>As far as support is concerned, Ninetales is a given as Lilligant, while she can function in other weathers, is first and foremost a sun sweeper; reciprocally, Ninetales benefits from Lilligant being excellent against rain, and to a lesser extent, sand. Stealth Rock and Spikes, from partners like Dugtrio, Landorus-T, and Forretress, are extremely useful, especially considering that a boosted Lilligant is very threatening and can force many switches. Sleep Powder forces many Pokemon out as well, racking up entry hazard damage to the point where Lilligant can function as a late-game cleaner, finishing off games. The former two also benefit from the removal of physical walls, namely Gliscor, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory. A Toxic Spikes absorber like Venusaur, Tentacruel, or Amoonguss is crucial, as Lilligant hates Toxic Spikes. The former can punch holes for Lilligant to sweep, and vice versa. The aforementioned Dugtrio is helpful for trapping and KOing Heatran and other Fire-types if Lilligant isn't running Hidden Power Rock or Ground. Gothitelle or Magnezone can be helpful for trapping and KOing Steel-types if Hidden Power Fire is not run. A Choice Scarf user like Salamence or Latios that can take on the genies and Dragon-types is helpful if Hidden Power Ice is not run. Ground-types like Landorus-T can help by forcing out or KOing Heatran and other Fire-types if Hidden Power Ground is not run. A lot of the support that is needed is all based on what Hidden Power is being run.</p>

<p>Where actual partners are concerned, the best is the aforementioned Venusaur, as both can set up sweeps for one another: mixed Venusaur is particularly potent after its counters are removed by Lilligant. Volcarona is also excellent, as Lilligant is great at facilitating a Volcarona sweep, KOing the bulky Water-types Volcarona hates if it is not running Giga Drain, and Volcarona would much prefer to run a Hidden Power, Roost, or even Rest. Essentially anything that likes bulky Water-types removed will enjoy having Lilligant as a partner, ranging from frail attackers like Infernape to slow attackers like Conkeldurr.</p>

[SET]
name: Sun Utility
move 1: Leaf Storm
move 2: Healing Wish
move 3: Sleep Powder 
move 4: Hidden Power Rock / Hidden Power Fire
item: Life Orb
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Modest
evs: 60 Def / 252 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Instead of the usual Quiver Dance sweeper, Lilligant can take a supportive role on sun teams. Her main niche is as the fastest user of Healing Wish in the game. It can give certain Pokemon, especially Volcarona, the premier recipient, a second chance at sweeping when they are at low health or afflicted with crippling status, at the cost of Lilligant herself, so it must be used with great care. Volcarona is the premier recipient because it normally only has one or two times it can switch into Stealth Rock from full health (depending on whether or not it has to take a hit), and because Healing Wish acts before entry hazards, Volcarona is given another shot at surviving entry hazards. This is also true of many other Pokemon when they are in range of being KOed by entry hazards. Leaf Storm is almost like a nuke, punching huge holes in anything that does not resist it. It is so powerful that Tyranitar often cannot survive it even under sand; Politoed is also cleanly OHKOed. Sleep Powder is as dangerous as it is on the Quiver Dance set; however, instead of helping Lilligant sweep, it helps teammates sweep. Hidden Power Rock is great for coverage against Volcarona and other Fire-types, while also getting coverage on Flying-types like Dragonite, Salamence, the genies, and Gyarados. Hidden Power Fire also has use when against Steel-types like Ferrothorn and Forretress.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given spread outruns positive base 80s and neutral base 70s, as well as Scarf Latios with a Chlorophyll boost. The Defense EVs give Lilligant a good chance to survive an Ice Shard from Mamoswine. Lilligant can then OHKO with a powerful Leaf Storm. 64 EVs can be moved to Special Defense to survive Choice Scarf Politoed's Ice Beam and KO with Leaf Storm, but Mamoswine's Ice Shard is much more of an issue, as Politoed has trouble switching in because it fears losing the weather war against Ninetales by falling to Leaf Storm. Leftovers may also be used to give passive recovery, but Life Orb is almost always preferred to give Leaf Storm the maximum possible damage output.</p>

<p>Hidden Power Ice is the main alternative Hidden Power type for its coverage against Dragon-types and the genies, but Hidden Power Ground is also viable to hit Heatran, as well as maintaining coverage on other Fire-types. Another option is Aromatherapy over Healing Wish if you only need Lilligant to heal status, which has the advantage of not killing her. This turns Lilligant into a much less unique support Pokemon and makes her compete with Celebi for space on a team, and Celebi's much higher bulk and slightly better Speed without a Chlorophyll boost makes it superior if Lilligant is not running Healing Wish, though Lilligant still stands out with Sleep Powder. She also competes with Roserade, who has access to Sleep Powder and Aromatherapy, as well as having access to the elusive Toxic Spikes and more Special Attack, making it so she hits harder with Leaf Storm than Lilligant.</p>

<p>This set really doesn't need much support. Ninetales is a given for this set, as it is made for sun teams, and Lilligant can remove Tyranitar, Politoed, Hippowdon, and even Abomasnow, but there really isn't much else. What she really needs is partners that appreciate sleeping Pokemon: think Swords Dance Breloom, Calm Mind Gothitelle, Bulk Up Conkeldurr, Growth Venusaur, Dragon Dance Salamence and, of course, Quiver Dance Volcarona. Note that the latter two love Healing Wish as well because they are weak to Stealth Rock. Without something like one of those Pokemon, this set is pretty much wasted. Otherwise, this set really stands out on its own, and is a great supporter for any team.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>For a Pokemon with such a shallow movepool, Lilligant actually has a decent amount of things she can do other than what is discussed above. The first of these is SubSeed, which is pretty good considering how fast Lilligant is after a Chlorophyll boost, but Jumpluff and Whimsicott essentially outclass Lilligant at this strategy. Synthesis can be used, recovering two-thirds of her HP in sun, but unfortunately drops to a measly one-third once an opposing weather inducer comes in, and Lilligant struggles to find space for it on its moveset. Stun Spore is outclassed by Sleep Powder, as sleep is much more potent than paralysis most of the time, so there isn't much room for it either. Petal Dance can be used, either with a Lum Berry or with Own Tempo to avoid confusion, but Grass has a lot of resists, so it leaves Lilligant prone to being setup on or KOed. Don't use Energy Ball, as while the 5 Base Power it has over Giga Drain may seem appealing, the power difference is meaningless, and Lilligant loses the recovery from Giga Drain that she loves. Lastly, she can use Leaf Storm to hit harder, or Sunny Day + SolarBeam to hit a tad weaker than the former but more consistently.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Lilligant's counters are mainly based on her Hidden Power of choice. If not running Hidden Power Fire, Scizor, Ferrothorn, Jirachi, Forretress, Skarmory, Lucario, and Bronzong do fairly well against her. Note that Skarmory is shaky, as a boosted Hidden Power Ice and Rock can do a number, but Brave Bird does a lot in return. Lucario is shaky as well because Lilligant can just put it to sleep and set up to a point where it can be KOed by Giga Drain. Dragonite, Thundurus-T, Latios, Latias, Haxorus, and Hydreigon do well if she isn't running Hidden Power Ice, though the former three are hit hard by Hidden Power Rock as well. Thundurus-T is fairly frail, and sun-boosted Hidden Power Fire does a number. Hidden Power Rock and Ground are rare, so Volcarona and Heatran are pretty much solid counters, taking anything Lilligant throws at them and retaliating with sun- plus STAB-boosted Fire-type attacks. The same goes for Ninetales and other Fire-types like Chandelure. However, Volcarona is OHKOed by a +1 Hidden Power Fire after Stealth Rock damage, so it must have Stealth Rock off the field for it to do any good against Lilligant.</p>

<p>Any good special wall not weak to one of Lilligant's attacks, namely Blissey and Chansey, can wall Lilligant pretty easily. However, they are vulnerable to being put to sleep and being set up on, though they can all status Lilligant in the form of Thunder Wave or Toxic, reducing her sweeping capabilities immensely. Tentacruel can take on Lilligant once something is already asleep and if Lilligant has not acquired many boosts, but only if it carries Ice Beam or the rare Venoshock. Tentacruel also sets up the Toxic Spikes that Lilligant hates. Sand is also a huge problem, as sand plus Life Orb recoil means Lilligant will die extremely quickly.</p>

<p>Without any boosts from Chlorophyll or Quiver Dance, Lilligant is open to being KOed by anything faster. This ranges from Choice Scarf users to naturally faster Pokemon, including but not limited to Terrakion, Salamence, and Starmie. Speaking of Starmie, Timid Choice Scarf Starmie outspeeds 196 Spe Lilligant even after a Chlorophyll boost, easily KOing with Ice Beam or sun-boosted Hidden Power Fire. Priority from likes of Mamoswine and Breloom does a number as well, especially considering the fact that Lilligant is fairly frail. Overall, your best bet against Lilligant is removing her beloved sun, using priority, or any Choice Scarf user with a base Speed greater than 110 and a Speed-boosting nature.</p>