[Overview]

<p>Magneton has always been and still is a mediocre Pokemon in OU. While Magneton does have several excellent resistances, it also has crippling weaknesses to Fighting-, Ground-, and Fire-type moves, and its terrible defenses mean that even moves that it resists will 2HKO. However, Magneton's worst flaw is that it is almost completely eclipsed by Magnezone, which can fulfill nearly every viable role Magneton can with greater success.</p>

<p>Despite these setbacks, Magneton still has one useful trait that makes it viable in OU: Speed. Magneton's greater Speed allows it to revenge kill several foes that Magnezone cannot when equipped with a Choice Scarf. This gives Magneton a small niche of being a decent Steel trapper and revenge killer at the same time.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Fire
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Flash Cannon
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Magnet Pull
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Magneton is able to trap and revenge kill a variety of Steel-types, including Lucario, Skarmory, and Forretress. Magneton's higher Speed allows it to get the jump on threats, such as +1 Dragonite, Starmie, and Dugtrio that could easily destroy Choice Scarf Magnezone. Volt Switch functions as Magneton's main STAB move, giving it the ability to maintain momentum and escape out of unfavorable situations. Hidden Power Ice is a key coverage move in Magneton's arsenal, as it keeps Dragon-types such as Salamence, Garchomp, and most notably, +1 Dragonite in check. Hidden Power Fire can be used to eliminate Ferrothorn, a threat that would otherwise completely wall this set, and it is also useful to OHKO Scizor before it can U-turn out or KO Magneton with Superpower. However, it leaves Magneton unable to revenge kill Dragon Dance Dragonite, which would otherwise be one of its main advantages over Magnezone. Thunderbolt functions as Magneton's alternate Electric STAB move and is very useful in situations where switching out is unfavorable. Its higher Base Power is also helpful against Steel-types such as Lucario and Scizor if Magneton lacks Hidden Power Fire. In the final slot, Flash Cannon is used to hit Terrakion, Tyranitar, Mamoswine, and Kyurem-B for super effective damage. It is also Magneton's best move against Ground-types if it lacks Hidden Power Ice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread allows Magneton to outspeed everything up to +1 Dragonite. Because this particular Magneton set lacks power, entry hazard support from Pokemon such as Forretress, Skarmory, and Ferrothorn is recommended. While it's not required, rain support from Politoed is recommended if Magneton is not using Hidden Power Fire, as it allows Magneton to use its more powerful STAB move, Thunder, and neutralizes its Fire weakness. Latias and Latios are also amazing partners for Magneton, as they not only have perfect defensive synergy but can also punch large holes into the foe's team without Steel-types there to stop them. Scizor is a very good partner because of its ability to sweep teams once Steel-types are removed. It also can bring Magneton in safely with a slow U-turn. Magneton can also function in a playstyle known as DragMag, where it works together with its evolution, Magnezone, to eliminate all of the foe's Steel-types, allowing Dragon-types such as Dragonite and Garchomp to sweep the foe's team.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Magneton's sparse movepool leaves it with few viable alternate options. Perhaps the second most viable set that Magneton can run is a SubCharge set consisting of Thunderbolt / Charge Beam / Substitute / Hidden Power Ice. However, it takes too long to set up, and the only Steel-type that this set can really beat is Ferrothorn. Magneton can use Thunder Wave to decent effect, as it can slow down faster threats such as Terrakion. However, Magneton is too frail to use this move effectively. Magneton can also use Signal Beam and Hidden Power Ground to hit Celebi and Heatran, respectively, but outside of these specific situations, these moves are not very useful. Finally, Magneton can use its alternate ability, Analytic, to boost its power if it attacks last, but this prevents Magneton from fulfilling its main niche in the OU environment: trapping Steel-types.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although Magneton's Special Attack stat is great, its subpar movepool and defenses mean that it isn't very difficult to counter. Gastrodon is able to withstand whatever Magneton dishes out at it and threaten it out with Earth Power. Chansey and Blissey are able to withstand even the most powerful of Magneton's attacks, heal off the damage with Wish, and wear it down with Seismic Toss. Apart from the rare Signal Beam, Celebi isn't fazed by anything Magneton carries. Specially defensive Heatran falls into a similar category as Celebi with the exception that it can immediately threaten Magneton with Lava Plume. Ferrothorn must watch out for Hidden Power Fire, but apart from that, it is able to take whatever Magneton throws at it and set up entry hazards. Latios and Latias can take even a super effective Hidden Power Ice and either heavily dent Magneton with a rain-boosted Surf or use it as setup bait with Calm Mind. Specially defensive Hippowdon can take up to two Hidden Power Ices and OHKO Magneton with Earthquake. Ground-types in general make solid answers to Magneton, as they can block Volt Switch and only fear Hidden Power Ice. Finally, if you lack any defensive answers to Magneton, then revenge killing it with either Breloom or faster Choice Scarf users, such as Terrakion, is always an option.</p>