[Overview]

<p>Mienshao has a number of traits that set it apart from its main competitor in OU, Terrakion. A what's essentially an immunity to passive damage thanks to Regenerator and better wallbreaking abilities thanks to the ability to use special attacks make Mienshao a better dedicated wallbreaker than Terrakion and a perfect weapon to use against defensive teams. Aside from being a better wallbreaker than Terrakion, which is Mienshao's main niche in OU, Mienshao has a few more aces up its sleeve. Thanks to Reckless, Choice Scarf Mienshao is more powerful than Choice Scarf Terrakion and has better cleaning potential, but it needs a ton of support, especially in the removal of Ghost-types, which prevent Mienshao from spamming its main STAB. Finally, with access to Regenerator and Baton Pass, Mienshao can provide free switches for its teammates with its SubPass set, something that Terrakion can't do.</p>

<p>Although Mienshao has quite a few appealing attributes, it is not without flaws. Mienshao is extremely frail, and thus cannot take even the weakest of hits comfortably. This means that Mienshao must get a free switch-in to come in, forcing it to act as more of a hit-and-run attacker. Mienshao's main STAB, Hi Jump Kick, has a nasty side effect, chipping away 50% of its health each time it fails to land. With the prevalence of the move Protect and Ghost-types, such as Jellicent and Gengar, Mienshao has to be very careful. It also faces slight competition from Terrakion for a teamslot, as they fill similar roles, not to mention that Terrakion is faster than Mienshao. Nevertheless, Mienshao is very unique compared to other Fighting-types in the tier and can pose a huge threat when used correctly.</p> 

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Hi Jump Kick
move 2: Grass Knot / Stone Edge
move 3: Hidden Power Ice
move 4: U-turn
item: Life Orb
ability: Regenerator
nature: Naive
evs: 252 Atk / 24 SpA / 232 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>If there is one set that really sets Mienshao apart from the other Fighting-types in OU, it would have to be this one. This set takes all of Mienshao's useful traits and mixes them all together. Because Mienshao has the ability to utilize its Special Attack, this set runs special moves that provide coverage on most of its common switch-ins, particularly Gliscor, Landorus-T, Jellicent, and Hippowdon. Regenerator is really useful here, as it helps mitigate Life Orb recoil every time Mienshao switches out. Hi Jump Kick is Mienshao's only STAB move and it is put to good use on this set by hitting everything very hard, 2HKOing and OHKOing most unresistant foes while decimating Tyranitar, Blissey, and Ferrothorn. Be cautious when using this move when Ghost-types are around, or else Mienshao's health will be instantly halved by recoil. Also make sure to be wary of using this move against Pokemon that commonly carry Protect, such as Ferrothorn, as this will also incur the recoil. The next move is a tough choice between Grass Knot and Stone Edge. Grass Knot is usually preferred because it messes with Mienshao's common counters, such as Jellicent and physically defensive Hippowdon, both of which wall this set quite well. Stone Edge still has its merits against Volcarona and Gyarados though, so it all depends on what threats you need Mienshao to cover. Hidden Power Ice is one of this set's greatest selling points, as it can KO Gliscor and Landorus-T and prevent them from completely walling this set while also dealing super effective damage to Garchomp, Salamence, and Dragonite. U-turn rounds off the set by allowing Mienshao to create some much-needed momentum in addition to having outstanding synergy with Regenerator.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because this set depends a lot on Mienshao's special attacks, a Naive nature should always be used to get the best out of both offensive stats. Fake Out is an option for dealing damage right off the bat and picking off weakened foes, but it is pitifully weak, and Mienshao misses the coverage provided by Grass Knot or Stone Edge. Reckless can be used if you want really powerful Hi Jump Kicks, but Regenerator is much more useful as it mitigates Life Orb recoil. Partner-wise, Choice Scarf Tyranitar and Scizor come to mind, as they can Pursuit trap Ghost-types relatively easy. Bulky Psychic-types, such as Celebi, defensive Starmie, and Latias, are also quite problematic for this set because Mienshao has nothing to really hit them hard with, but Tyranitar can deal with them quite easily. Choice Scarf Tyranitar also has the ability to outspeed and trap Gengar, Latias, and Latios while also bringing in sand for extra residual damage to help Mienshao guarantee a few 2HKOs, most notably on physically defensive Jellicent with Grass Knot after Stealth Rock. Latias and Latios are really nice teammates because they can outspeed Keldeo and Terrakion, both of which outspeed Mienshao and threaten it. Because Mienshao is so frail, bulky teammates, such as specially defensive Celebi, Hippowdon, specially defensive Heatran, and Landorus-T, are choices, having the added bonus of being able to set up Stealth Rock.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Hi Jump Kick
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Hidden Power Ice
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Reckless / Regenerator
nature: Naive
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>A Choice Scarf sacrifices Mienshao's ability to switch between moves in order to allow it to become a potent revenge killer. Mienshao's Speed stat combined with a Choice Scarf allows it to outspeed all positive-natured base 100 Speed Pokemon at +1, letting Mienshao revenge kill the likes of Salamence, Haxorus, and Volcarona, which commonly boost their Speed. Ability-wise, Reckless is almost always preferred, as it allows Mienshao's Hi Jump Kick to 2HKO even Skarmory after Stealth Rock, a feat that Choice Scarf Terrakion can only dream of. Regenerator still has its merits though, especially if your team lacks a Rapid Spin user. Unlike Terrakion, Mienshao has access to U-turn, which lets it gain much-needed momentum against common switch-ins, such as Jellicent and Hippowdon, while also dealing a huge chunk to Celebi. Hi Jump Kick hits very hard when boosted by Reckless, and oftentimes Mienshao will find itself sweeping with it at the end of the game, OHKOing pretty much everything that's weak to it and 2HKOing almost everything else. A few notable 2HKOs that Hi Jump Kick boosted by Reckless achieves are ones on defensive Skarmory after Stealth Rock damage, offensive Latias, and specially defensive Jirachi. Standard Ferrothorn and Breloom are always OHKOed as well. Stone Edge is very important to OHKO Gyarados and Volcarona in particular, both of which can wall all of Mienshao's other moves. Hidden Power Ice is Mienshao's hidden weapon against Gliscor and Landorus-T, which are very common switch-ins against Fighting-types in general. Hidden Power Ice has other uses though, such as OHKOing Dragonite after Stealth Rock and allowing Mienshao to take out Salamence 100% of the time after Stealth Rock, unlike Stone Edge, which misses quite frequently.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Naive nature should always be used on this set because Mienshao does not want Hidden Power Ice to be weakened if it were to run Jolly. Grass Knot is still very much viable on this set because Jellicent and Hippowdon are both very problematic, but it should only be used if you do not need Mienshao to handle Gliscor or Landorus-T. Unlike the all-out attacking set, Choice Scarf Mienshao requires a lot more prediction to use. Due to the prevalence of Jellicent, Gengar, and users of the move Protect, Mienshao has to be very careful when locking itself into Hi Jump Kick, lest it receive a nasty 50% drop in health due to recoil. To remedy this, Tyranitar and Scizor are stressed on this set as partners. Both of them can trap Jellicent and Gengar with Pursuit, allowing Mienshao to use Hi Jump Kick without having to worry about it missing due to these Ghost-types. Not only are Scizor and Tyranitar useful for trapping Ghost-types, but they are also useful for trapping bulky Psychic-types, such as Latias and Celebi, which are very problematic for this set. Entry hazard support is stressed heavily on this set, as it secures a few important 2HKOs, such as Skarmory and Latias, while also securing OHKOs on Keldeo and Breloom. Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Forretress are all great users of Spikes. Both Kyurem and Kyurem-B are fantastic teammates because their powerful Ice-type STAB lets them deal with Hippowdon and Landorus-T, allowing Mienshao to run Grass Knot over Hidden Power Ice if you want to.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Substitute / Swords Dance
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Hi Jump Kick
move 4: Stone Edge
item: Life Orb
ability: Regenerator
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Mienshao can utilize its above-average Speed stat and Regenerator in order to become a great Baton Passer. The main goal of this set is to set up a Substitute or a Swords Dance on a predicted switch and then Baton Pass to a suitable recipient. Because Mienshao forces a lot of switches, it will find numerous opportunities to set up. Regenerator is always preferred on this set to mitigate Life Orb recoil, health lost from Substitute, and because Mienshao will be switching in and out quite frequently. The choice between Substitute and Swords Dance depends on your team. If you wish to pass free protection to a sweeper that can set up on its own, then Substitute is preferred; however, if something on your team would appreciate a +2 Attack boost, then Swords Dance is obviously the better choice. Hi Jump Kick is used to give Mienshao a means of attacking, KOing Tyranitar and Blissey with ease. Although this set is meant to support other teammates, Mienshao can still pose a threat behind a Substitute or with a Swords Dance boost if it has to. Stone Edge is useful for all-around great coverage, preventing Volcarona, Gyarados, and Salamence from setting up on Mienshao.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>There really isn't too much more to say about this set, as it is pretty straightforward. Mienshao can either pass a Substitute to teammates in order to ease up prediction and provide a free switch-in opportunity, or pass a +2 Attack boost to a suitable recipient. Swords Dance requires more prediction, however, especially if your opponent has a faster check to Mienshao that could keep it from passing.</p>

<p>Mienshao's teammates for this set differ depending on what you want Mienshao to be passing. If Substitute is being used, Scarf Tyranitar is one of the best teammates, as it is able to deal with everything that troubles Mienshao due to its ability to come in risk-free. Nasty Plot Celebi also appreciates the free protection that Substitute gives, being able to easily switch in on Jellicent and Hippowdon while still keeping its Substitute intact. Kyurem-B is a fantastic teammate if Mienshao runs Substitute due to Kyurem-B's great bulk and useful resistances to Water and Grass, allowing it to keep the Substitute from breaking. This will let Kyurem-B run an extra coverage move if it wants, as it wouldn't have to run Substitute thanks to Mienshao. Calm Mind Latias and Reuniclus are both deadly behind a Substitute, making them both great partners to this set as well. If Mienshao is running Swords Dance, fast physical attackers are obviously preferred. Choice Scarf Tyranitar can safely switch into fast Psychic-types, such as Latios and Latias, threatening to decimate them with Crunch or trap them with Pursuit. Poison Heal Breloom can easily switch into Scald from Politoed and Jellicent while posing an instant offensive threat to the opposing team. Dragon Dance Gyarados, especially offensive variants with Lum Berry, appreciate the boost and can easily take any move that Hippowdon and Jellicent might throw at them while easily OHKOing them at +2.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There are not that many other options for Mienshao, as most of its movepool is quite useless. A Choice Band can used to power up Hi Jump Kick to even higher levels, but the Life Orb set has similar power, and this set is mostly outclassed by Terrakion anyway. A Bulk Up set sounds tempting, but Mienshao is too frail to take advantage of the Defense boost and will find it very hard to safely set up. An offensive Calm Mind set could work, seeing as Mienshao has access to Grass Knot, Hidden Power Ice, and Aura Sphere; however, it is inferior to its other sets, and there are much better users of Calm Mind out there anyway. Rock Slide can be used over Stone Edge on all of its sets if you hate the accuracy of Stone Edge, but the loss in power is easily noticeable. Taunt can help out its Baton Passing set, but it forces it to give up a coverage move.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mienshao is extremely frail, so a single powerful blow can easily take it out, even from full health. Anything that can outspeed it can probably check it with little-to-no problem. Gengar can outspeed Mienshao and OHKO with Shadow Ball. Latios and Latias can threaten it with pretty much all of their moves, but they cannot reliably switch into Hi Jump Kick. Landorus-T, physically defensive Hippowdon, and Gliscor are all great counters to Choice Scarf Mienshao locked into anything other than Hidden Power Ice. Celebi can come in on the Choice Scarf set's Hi Jump Kick, but it has to watch out for U-turn. Jellicent is by far one of Mienshao's greatest counters, as it can come in on Hi Jump Kick and threaten it with Will-O-Wisp or even Scald. Sableye is arguably even better then Jellicent, as it fears none of Mienshao's moves and cannot be Pursuit trapped by Tyranitar or Scizor. Starmie can also outpace Mienshao and survive a Hi Jump Kick from the Choice Scarf set if need be. Tornadus can revenge kill with Hurricane as long as Mienshao isn't holding a Choice Scarf.</p>