[Overview]

<p>When one looks at Ninetales, the first thing to come to mind is its relative lack of utility outside of Drought. Ninetales is fairly useless outside of its ability, so the sun it provides should be the only reason to run it. While Ninetales doesn't have an expansive movepool or a good stat distribution, it can run a few viable sets that allow it to just barely pull its weight. If you want to pack Ninetales on a team, you need to make sure that you provide adequate support to keep Ninetales alive, as sun teams are generally dependent on Drought support.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Flamethrower
move 2: Will-O-Wisp
move 3: Sunny Day
move 4: Roar / Hypnosis / Substitute
item: Leftovers
ability: Drought
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 120 Def / 136 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While it might seem strange to use a defensive set on a Fire-type, especially one that isn't all that bulk, Ninetales is the MVP of a sun team, as it brings the sun the team relies on. Many sun teams fall flat on their face with another weather in play, so it is imperative for Ninetales to outlast opposing weather inducers. However, opposing weather teams with Dugtrio greatly threaten it. This Ninetales can survive an Earthquake from non-Choice Band Dugtrio, which helps mitigate this worry. Additionally, having a good pivot is always handy, and Ninetales fulfills that role decently. Ninetales can switch into most Grass-, Ice-, Fire-, and Bug-type attacks, as well as Scalds from bulky Water-types. Ninetales still isn't that bulky though, so invest sun-boosted Fire-type attacks from the likes of Darmanitan, Victini, and Volcarona will still hurt.</p>

<p>Flamethrower occupies the first slot as the STAB move of choice, sporting perfect accuracy and decent power in sun. It allows Ninetales to wear down Pokemon with something other than residual damage and prevents it from being Taunt or setup bait. Next, Will-O-Wisp lets Ninetales check a ton of physical attackers, such as Dragonite, by outspeeding and crippling them. It also gives Ninetales a way to beat Dugtrio if you can predict its switch in; although Will-O-Wisp's accuracy is not so great, its huge potential reward makes it worth the risk. Sunny Day is completely irreplaceable, as it steals the momentum back from the switch in of an opposing weather inducer; seizing this momentum gives you an immediate advantage and forces your opponent to rethink their game plan. The last slot is a toss-up between two moves. Roar is usually preferred for deterring setup sweepers, especially SubCM Latias, which is a huge threat to most sun teams, and providing yet another way to combat Dugtrio. Toxic is another option that enables Ninetales to cripple opposing Politoed, Tyranitar, and Hippowdon that just love to switch into it. Hypnosis is another risky but rewarding option, particularly if you manage to catch a weather inducer, a menacing threat, or&mdash;guess who&mdash;Dugtrio. The final option listed is Substitute, and with good reason. It eases worry against Dugtrio, aids in spreading burn, and lets Ninetales use Sunny Day against Tyranitar. Jirachi, Ferrothorn, and Forretress are just a few Pokemon that Ninetales can set up a free Substitute on. All of these moves are excellent; pick the one that is best for your team.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs give Ninetales some much-needed bulk, with enough Defense investment to survive an Earthquake from Focus Sash Dugtrio at full health. 136 Speed EVs and a Timid nature let it outrun Modest Hydreigon and more importantly, Adamant Haxorus and Jolly Toxicroak, who can be rendered useless with a well timed Will-O-Wisp. These EVs provide an equilibrium between Speed and bulk, but the spread can be altered to put more emphasis on either. 16 EVs can be moved from Speed to Defense to guarantee Life Orb Breloom's +2 Mach Punch never OHKOes, while the Defense EVs can be moved to Special Defense to help Ninetales withstand powerful hits from foes like Calm Mind Latias and Politoed. Shed Shell is a usable item because, as has been alluded to throughout this analysis, Dugtrio is a pain in the rear. However, the loss of recovery is a very high price to pay, and you can run Substitute to achieve the same end result.</p>

<p>The fourth moveslot is in no way limited to the options listed on the set. Protect is useful for scouting and gaining extra Leftovers recovery, and might even save Ninetales against Dugtrio. Pain Split is a decent option to both provide recovery and a means of wearing down the opponent. Hidden Power Rock can be used to break Heatran's Air Balloon, which gives teammates such as Volcarona and Venusaur the ability to hit Heatran with Ground-type attacks. Hypnosis can put a dangerous opposing threat to sleep, though its accuracy is very subpar. Finally, Substitute is an option to guard Ninetales from opposing switch-ins and burn them; however, losing 25% of your weather inducer's health every time you use the move is not desirable. All of these moves are excellent choices; they only aren't listed on the set because they have more limited applications than the listed choices.</p>

<p>Support is the difference between life and death for defensive Ninetales, as it is incapable of operating without a few types of support. The first is Magic Bounce or Rapid Spin. Ninetales is weak to Stealth Rock and vulnerable to all other entry hazards, so needless to say, it is very helpful to keep them off the field. Xatu is best for Magic Bounce because of its Ground immunity; its advantages over a spinner are its ability to provide momentum and paralysis support. Forretress and defensive Starmie are the best sun team spinners. Forretress can take physical Dragon-type attacks and non-STAB Earthquakes aimed at Ninetales as well as set up Stealth Rock or another hazard. Starmie is good because it can take at least two hits from most variants of Terrakion, Recover up, and force it out. Dugtrio support is vital for sun teams in general, and helps this Ninetales by getting rid of Heatran, Tyranitar, and Tentacruel, as well as finishing off weakened Politoed. Magma Storm Heatran can help deal with weather inducers and a whole slew of other Pokemon. Heatran also has a useful Dragon resistance and can set up Stealth Rock, so it is a useful partner in general. The Dugtrio weakness is quite apparent when using Ninetales and Heatran together, however, so be sure to not fill the remaining slots with Pokemon vulnerable to it. Bronzong can take most attacks that would severely hurt Ninetales due to Levitate and its rare set of resistances. It can also set up Stealth Rock, which is always useful. Last but definitely not least is Latias, who has near-perfect type synergy with Ninetales; Dragonite is similar but unfortunately shares a Rock weakness. Sun teams appreciate Latias's resistances immensely, while Latias can provide Wish or even Healing Wish support to aid Ninetales in its quest to stay alive.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Sunny Day
move 2: SolarBeam
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Hidden Power Ice / Will-O-Wisp / Nasty Plot
item: Leftovers / Air Balloon
ability: Drought
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While keeping Ninetales alive for as long as possible is certainly important, it requires quite a bit of support to take hits on its own. Additionally, it has difficulty winning weather wars by itself. However, with an offensive set, Ninetales can both win the weather war and pose an offensive threat. While it doesn't hit that hard with base 81 Special Attack, sun-boosted Fire Blast hits everything it needs to. The offensive presence pushes aside the need for Dugtrio, who is commonly run with defensive Ninetales to make up for its lack thereof. Be sure to make note of this in not always using Dugtrio, otherwise you have an inferior Ninetales that can't take a strong attack to save its life.</p>

<p>SolarBeam is the main draw of this set; 2HKOing Tyranitar and Politoed is no small feat. It also hits most Water-types for decent damage, so it isn't limited in use to just weather inducers. However, its major fault is that it leaves Ninetales defenseless if another weather comes into play. This is where Sunny Day comes in; if you can pull it off as Tyranitar or Politoed comes in, they either switch out or foolishly stay in, only to lose a large amount of health to SolarBeam. However, unlike the defensive set, there is no margin for error when using Sunny Day. One misprediction will leave Ninetales helpless to do anything; thus, you must be aggressive in your use of the move. Next on the highlight reel is Fire Blast. Fire Blast hits considerably hard with 252 Special Attack EVs and sun backing it. The power is not amazing but gets the job done; it 2HKOes frail resists and most neutrally hit offensive Pokemon.</p>

<p>The last slot has quite a few viable options. Hidden Power Ice is the preferred choice to hit Dragon-types hard as well as OHKO Landorus-T and Gliscor without the risk of missing. Will-O-Wisp is an amazing move on Ninetales because of its potency against physical attackers that would otherwise be able to defeat Ninetales with ease. The final option is Nasty Plot, which might seem to be an April Fools' joke on a Pokemon with base 81 Special Attack; however, this is not the case. In sun, a boosted Fire Blast 2HKOes Blissey, which is no small feat for a special attacker. A boosted SolarBeam can OHKO Tyranitar and Politoed, Ninetales's two worst foes. Nonetheless, it cannot be emphasized enough that Ninetales is not a sweeper; it's a utility attacker and should be played as to its strengths; bypassing opposing weather starters while also maintaining an acceptable offensive presence. Be sure to use Air Balloon with Nasty Plot, by the way, since it provides a nice buffer against Dugtrio, Landorus-T, and other Ground-types, as well as Earthquake Dragonite, making it easier to set up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Timid nature is preferred to outrun neutral base 100s, positive base 90s, and everything below, but Modest is also viable for the added power it provides. Timid should definitely be chosen if using Hidden Power Ice, however, so that Ninetales can get the jump on Salamence that do not run a positive Speed nature. Leftovers is the item of choice because passive recovery helps keep Ninetales alive, which is crucial for sun teams. It also gives Ninetales more Stealth Rock switch-ins. An equally good choice is Air Balloon; Ninetales is extremely vulnerable to Ground-type attacks and Dugtrio, so a Ground immunity, no matter how flimsy, is appreciated; as previously mentioned, it also helps with setting up Nasty Plot. One could go so far as to run Shed Shell solely for Dugtrio, but the lack of other relevant benefits makes it inferior. Concerning the last slot, there are two other moves that could be run; Protect can be used to augment Leftovers recovery and scout foes, and Hidden Power Ground can be used to hit Heatran, a major threat to most sun teams.</p>

<p>Magic Bounce or spinner support is 100% necessary because this set already has enough survivability issues even without entry hazards in the mix. For the offensively minded players that would use this set, Xatu fits the bill perfectly, as it can set up screens to protect sun sweepers and maintain momentum with U-turn. However, Rapid Spin support is still the more reliable option. The two spinners that are best on sun are differentiated by one factor: Forretress has a Dragon resistance and Donphan a Rock one; whichever your team is more weak to is the one that you should use. Forretress also has slow Volt Switch going for it, while Donphan can provide offensive presence and the ability to pick off weakened Dragon-types. Additionally, you will need Heatran removed for Ninetales to function properly, so Dugtrio, Wobbuffet, or a bunch of moves scattered among Ninetales's teammates is necessary.</p>

<p>Bronzong and Latias share beautiful defensive synergy, with Bronzong setting up Stealth Rock to help bring weather inducers into KO range and Latias providing Wish support to keep Ninetales in decent health. Magma Storm Heatran remains an excellent partner, possessing the ability to trap most Pokemon that threaten Ninetales. Last but not least, Healing Wish Lilligant is an amazing partner, as it can utilize sun, put Ninetales's threats to sleep, and heal up Ninetales when it would otherwise fall to entry hazards. When Ninetales is in such low health, opponents are more likely to let their weather inducer die, which leaves Ninetales in control of the weather if Lilligant manages to heal it.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There are a few sets that Ninetales used to be able to run effectively but have declined in use since the release of BW2. One of these is Choice Specs, which makes Fire Blast really pack a punch. However, being locked into one move is terrible for a Pokemon that needs to maintain versatility in attacking, and Ninetales still isn't all that powerful. Similarly, a pure Nasty Plot set with Energy Ball over SolarBeam and Hidden Power Ice over Sunny Day might seem viable, but Ninetales fails to sweep effectively, and Nasty Plot only works with Sunny Day alongside it. If you ever want to run such a set, Dugtrio support is essential to prevent Heatran from being an issue. A Calm Mind booster is another of those sets; in theory, it should allow Ninetales to tank hits and dish them out, but it doesn't quite work that in practice. Multiple boosts are needed to accomplish that goal, and Ninetales has difficulty setting up that many boosts before fainting. The last set is one with 252 Speed EVs and a Timid nature utilizing Disable. À la SubDisable Gengar, Disable could mess with Pokemon that only have one move with which to hit Ninetales hard. However, unlike Gengar, Ninetales cannot to take sufficient advantage of the free turn(s) it might gain, thus it is inferior to any of Ninetales's other options. Toxic could be used in place of Will-O-Wisp as a status move to deter bulky Water-types and weather inducers from switching into Ninetales. On the other hand, it lacks the crippling halving of Attack that Will-O-Wisp boasts, making it a much less effective option overall.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best form of defense against Ninetales is another weather starter, as Ninetales is used solely for sun. If sun is taken off the field, sun teams will be immediately crippled. The two biggest threats that come to mind are Tyranitar, who can threaten to OHKO it with its powerful STAB Rock-type attacks or pick it off with Pursuit, and Politoed who can decimate it with its drizzle boosted Water-type moves. However, Ninetales does have some sort of defense against the two weather starters: both are 2HKOed by SolarBeam, while Tyranitar is also crippled by Will-O-Wisp. Ninetales can also use Sunny Day as they switch in to regain momentum. In short, weather inducers have to be careful against Ninetales, especially offensive variants. The only weather inducer that can switch in risk-free against most Ninetales is Hippowdon, but it can be silenced by Nasty Plot-boosted SolarBeam. If you don't want to have to worry about Ninetales dealing heavy damage to your weather inducer, Dugtrio is the best way to go, as it beats all but Substitute and Air Balloon variants with a little prior damage.</p>

<p>Other than weather inducers, there are a few Pokemon that can beat Ninetales. If you want to completely wall it, Blissey and Chansey are your best friends, as they can take any hit and slowly kill it with Toxic and Seismic Toss. Blissey would do well to watch out for Nasty Plot-boosted Fire Blast, however. Tentacruel also walls it and is able to set up Toxic Spikes, Toxic Ninetales directly, or use Rapid Spin, all for free. Heatran also walls Ninetales and can set up Stealth Rock or straight-up attack with Earth Power. The defensive set is fair game for Gastrodon, but note that the offensive set would OHKO it with SolarBeam if it attempted to take a hit. Terrakion can take any attack other than SolarBeam and OHKO with Stone Edge or Close Combat. Volcarona can set up for free and demolish Ninetales; sun-boosted Fire Blast and Hidden Power Rock 2HKO Ninetales even without Quiver Dance boosts. Even defensive Ninetales has a small chance to be OHKOed by +1 Hidden Power Rock, while offensive variants are always OHKOed by both +1 Hidden Power Rock and +1 Fire Blast. Victini always OHKOes offensive Ninetales with Choice Band V-create and defensive variants over half the time, while taking a pittance from any attacks Ninetales might throw at it. Defensive variants are also easily taken care of by Gliscor.</p>

<p>Other than opposing weather, Dragon-types are the best way to defeat Ninetales. Kyurem-B can take anything Ninetales has other than a burn and blast it to pieces. Garchomp is similar; Yache Berry variants can take even Hidden Power Ice. Latios and Latias also wall and can KO Ninetales. Dragon Dance set-up sweepers that carry Substitute or hold a Lum Berry can set up on and destroy Ninetales along with its teammates. These include Substitute + Dragon Dance Gyarados, Lum Berry Dragon Dance Haxorus, Lum Berry Dragon Dance Dragonite, and Substitute + Dragon Dance Dragonite. These Pokemon only win if Ninetales does not carry Roar, however. Salamence can also beat Ninetales, no matter what the set&mdash;Dragon Dance, mixed, Choice Scarf, it doesn't matter.</p>

<p>As you can see, beating Ninetales is quite easy. Even if you don't have any of these Pokemon, you can always resort to pounding Ninetales with powerful attacks or hitting it with priority from Breloom or Choice Band Dragonite.</p>