[Overview]

<p>Ninjask is famous for only one reason: Baton Passing easy stat boosts to teammates. Its massive base 160 Speed and ability to boost its Speed and pass it to a teammate almost effortlessly gives Ninjask a small but valuable niche on OU teams. With Swords Dance, Ninjask can further prepare a sweep by boosting the offensive prowess of a powerful physical teammate. However, the good news ends here. Ninjask's sad bulk, weakness to priority like Mamoswine's Ice Shard, and quadruple weakness to Stealth Rock often hinder it from doing its only job, and if you don't take certain precautions, it becomes dead weight on your team. Its best sets are those that don't run any attacks, so Taunt is a huge problem. Unfortunately, Ninjask cannot use Taunt itself, leaving it vulnerable to phazing moves. Nevertheless, if you are lucky enough to pull off a Swords Dance and a few Speed Boosts, a donation to a powerful physical sweeper like Kyurem-B, Salamence, or even Marowak will make your opponent wail in pain.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Protect
move 4: Swords Dance / Toxic
item: Leftovers / Mental Herb
ability: Speed Boost
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 236 Def / 24 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is not too difficult to use thanks to its ability to boost its Speed without occupying an extra moveslot. This allows you to set up Substitutes or use Protect until you have enough Speed boosts to bail out with Baton Pass. Non-boosting attackers, namely Choice item users, cannot hit Ninjask during this process. If you detect that your opponent is a Choice Scarf user or if it has over base 115 base Speed, simply use Protect to gain the upper hand in Speed. Otherwise, you may alternate between Substitute and Protect in whatever order you desire. If your opponent switches as you put up a new Substitute, you are in an excellent position. You are now free to use Swords Dance, hit your opponent with Toxic to discourage them from setting up alongside Ninjask, or simply Baton Pass out, giving your teammate a free Substitute.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Since Ninjask has so much Speed to work with, it can invest just enough Speed to outrun positive natured base 115s, like Starmie and Raikou, while putting the remaining EVs into its physical bulk. The given defensive EVs allow Ninjask to survive a Choice Band Scizor's Bullet Punch and Jolly Life Orb Mamoswine's and Weavile's Ice Shard with enough HP to create a Substitute, then Protect and pass the two Speed boosts unscathed. However, a wise Mamoswine user may simply use Icicle Spear to break the Substitute and proceed to KO Ninjask. Mental Herb may be used over Leftovers in order to discourage Terrakion from wasting a turn Taunting you. You are then free to pass to Espeon to prevent Terrakion from setting up Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>Ninjask can serve the role of a quick passer or to instigate a Baton Pass chain. As a quick passer, Ninjask can garner a few Speed boosts and absolutely must find time to Swords Dance, then pass to a powerful physical attacker. Moxie Salamence is perhaps the best receiver, as it can easily dominate with just one or two boosts and further increase its Attack every time it KOes something (which will be often). However, the role of quick pass is usually better handled by Gorebyss or Smeargle, both of which require only one turn of set up.</p>

<p>Ninjask also functions very well on a Baton Pass chain; simply garner a few boosts, then pass to a bulkier teammate to continue setting up. With the donated Speed, your teammates will have an easier time boosting their defenses and offenses, allowing them to make bulky Substitutes of their own. Vaporeon and Scizor are naturally bulky and can boost their Defense with Acid Armor and Iron Defense, respectively. Mr. Mime's ability, Soundproof, blocks Roar and Perish Song, the bane of Baton Pass teams. It can also set up Calm Mind and create specially bulky Substitutes. Smeargle is the only Pokemon capable of passing Ingrain, which prevents Roar, Whirlwind, and Dragon Tail from breaking the chain. Espeon blocks status, Taunt, hazards, Whirlwind, and Roar with Magic Bounce and can set up more Calm Minds and sweep with Stored Power, which becomes massively powerful after the many boosts your team will gather along the way. Marowak is a frightening physical sweeper that has perfect neutral coverage with Bonemerang, Stone Edge, Double-Edge, and Fire Punch, but needs three or even four Speed Boosts to outspeed Choice Scarf users no thanks to its very low base 45 Speed. You may even consider running Battle Armor on Marowak to prevent an unlucky critical hit from your opponent from breaking through all the defense boosts your team will have gathered, but Double-Edge then becomes detrimental.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Flash can be used over Swords Dance to give Ninjask more opportunities to set up, either by making your opponent's attacks miss or by forcing a switch. Hone Claws is an option over Swords Dance to enable your recipient to use less accurate moves like Stone Edge, but the immediate power of Swords Dance is much more valuable in almost every situation. Ninjask is also the fastest user of Final Gambit, but it cannot afford to revenge kill as Stealth Rock makes it useless. Final Gambit can be used in the lead position, but Ninjask has better things to do. Roost can be used to regain 50% of Ninjask's health, making up for Stealth Rock and Substitute damage, but if Ninjask is lucky enough to get an extra turn to itself, Swords Dance is much more productive, since Ninjask will not be staying on the field very long. Whatever you do, do not try an offensive set. Its two STAB moves, X-Scissor and Aerial Ace, are too weak to do much damage and its best coverage move is Dig. A better idea is to let Ninjask do the grunt work and your teammate do the sweeping.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ninjask may be a pest, but there are numerous ways to defeat it. Stealth Rock is the first that comes to mind, stripping away half of Ninjask's health and limiting the number of times it can switch back in. Haze, while incredibly rare, is the most effective stop to Baton Pass. Perish Song is more deadly, as the only relevant Pokemon which is immune to it is Mr. Mime; not even Espeon's trusty Magic Bounce can block it. Politoed uses either move best and supports its own team with Drizzle. Whirlwind and Roar are the most common phazing moves, but they can be bounced back by Espeon. Double boosters like Agility Thundurus-T, Shell Smash Cloyster, and Rock Polish Terrakion can reach maximum Speed in just three turns and don't mind setting up alongside Ninjask. Terrakion can use Taunt as well, granting it an extra turn to use Rock Polish, while forcing Ninjask to switch out. Cloyster in particular not only boosts more quickly than Ninjask, but can also use Icicle Spear to break its Substitutes. Volcarona can boost alongside Ninjask and puts immediate pressure on it, affording it no time to set up Swords Dance, but must be wary of Toxic. Any Taunt user, namely Terrakion and the rare Sableye, can stop Ninjask's fun if it lacks Mental Herb.</p>