[Overview]

<p>After languishing in the depths of NU in the previous generations, Parasect got a great gift from the Dream World—Drizzle Politoed. Thanks to the endless downpour that Politoed brings, Parasect can effectively utilize Dry Skin, giving it a niche as a bulky Grass-type and SubSeed user on rain teams. It is also one of the few Pokemon who have access to Spore. This makes it a massive pain to deal with on rain teams, as it can stall out a large number of threats with Leech Seed and Substitute while replenishing its health every turn with Dry Skin and Leftovers. However, our mushroom friend does have its fair share of problems. While it has access to Spore, Parasect will become nearly useless outside of rain, as its relatively poor defensive stats will mean that any powerful neutral attack will KO it. This is compounded by the fact that Parasect has weaknesses to common Fire- and Ice-type attacks along with Stealth Rock. Taunt also completely shuts it down, meaning that dangerous foes such as Gyarados can set up on Parasect with ease. Despite these glaring flaws, Parasect shouldn't be underestimated. Play carelessly against it, and Parasect can make you pay dearly.</p>

[SET] 
name: SubSeed
move 1: Spore
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Leech Seed
move 4: X-Scissor / Protect
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
ability: Dry Skin
evs: 252 HP / 160 Def / 96 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Parasect makes a fantastic SubSeed user in the rain, as it can put a Pokemon to sleep with Spore and then gradually wear the opponent down with Leech Seed. Spore sets Parasect apart from other SubSeed users, and with the new sleep mechanics, it can potentially incapacitate the unfortunate victim for the rest of the match. Leech Seed and Substitute go hand-in-hand, as the HP lost from using Substitute can easily be recovered by Leftovers, Leech Seed, and Dry Skin. Substitute also has the added benefit of protecting Parasect from nasty status-inducing moves that could potentially cripple it, such as Toxic.</p>

<p>There are two options for the last moveslot. X-Scissor allows Parasect to smack Grass-types who might switch in to absorb Leech Seed. It also allows Parasect to deal with Ferrothorn, a big threat to rain teams, as Ferrothorn cannot break Parasect's Substitute with Power Whip or Gyro Ball. On the other hand, Protect makes Parasect nearly impossible to deal with outside of Taunt, as it can stall the opponent indefinitely with Leech Seed, Substitute, and Protect while they get worn down by Leech Seed. However, without X-Scissor, any Taunt user will completely shut down Parasect and set up on it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs balance out Parasect's defenses, with a slight emphasis towards its Special Defense, as Parasect will be switching into common Electric- and Grass-type special attacks. Although rare, Wobbuffet can outspeed Parasect and Encore one of its moves, rendering it useless for a few turns while the opponent sets up. For this reason, an alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 132 Def / 96 SpD / 28 Spe can be used, allowing Parasect to outspeed Wobbuffet and smack it hard with X-Scissor.</p>

<p>This set cannot function without rain, so it is obligatory to have Politoed as a teammate. Opposing weather inducers are also a big threat, as once Politoed bites the dust, Parasect will be nearly useless. Thus, Pokemon that can deal with weather inducers such as Tyranitar and Ninetales make great teammates for Parasect. Dragonite comes to mind immediately, as it can comfortably fit into a rain team, sponge Fire-type attacks aimed at Parasect extremely well thanks to Multiscale, and dispose of both Tyranitar and Ninetales easily.</p>

<p>Though Parasect can take resisted hits with ease, it needs bulky teammates who can sponge super effective attacks that trouble it, Fire-type moves in particular. Lanturn and Tentacruel are both great teammates for Parasect, having good defensive synergy with it. Lanturn also benefits from the rain, which allows it to utilize an accurate STAB Thunder. Even more, Tentacruel can remove entry hazards that bother Parasect with Rapid Spin. It can also lay Toxic Spikes, which will greatly assist Parasect in stalling. However, note that Parasect won't be able to put opponents to sleep unless they pack an immunity to Toxic Spikes.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>Though Parasect has a few other moves it can run, it is mostly outclassed in other roles and is hard-pressed for moveslots as it is. Aromatherapy can be used to heal its teammates, but Blissey plays the role of a cleric better with its massive special bulk. Parasect can also run both Spore and Stun Spore to surprise the opponent and support slower teammates, but Jirachi, Ferrothorn, and Blissey are bulkier and can spread paralysis more reliably. Parasect can even attempt a sweep with Swords Dance, and has physical options such as Seed Bomb, X-Scissor, and Brick Break, but it has better things to do. Finally, Parasect can run Toxic, but this would be a waste of a moveslot when considering the fact that its teammates can provide Toxic Spikes support much more reliably.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Unfortunately, Parasect has a long list of counters. Weather changers pose a massive threat to Parasect, as with its below-par defensive stats, it just can't stomach powerful blows from the likes of Tyranitar and Ninetales. Taunt also completely ruins Parasect, as it can barely scratch its foes with X-Scissor unless they are weak to it. Tornadus and Gyarados are especially dangerous, since they both pack Taunt, a handy resistance to X-Scissor, and benefit from the rain Parasect loves so much. Pokemon with a Grass / Poison typing, such as Roserade, are also a massive pain for Parasect to deal with, as they are immune to both Toxic and Leech Seed, remove Toxic Spikes, and can severely hurt Parasect with their STAB Poison-type attacks. They need to watch out for Spore, though. Magic Bounce Xatu is another great check to Parasect, as it can bounce back both Spore and Leech Seed, set up on Parasect while healing off any damage taken from X-Scissor with Roost, and maim it with its STAB Flying-type attacks. Finally, although rare, Sap Sipper users such as Sawsbuck and Bouffalant are immune to both Spore and Leech Seed, and can gain an Attack boost by switching into them. In general, if Parasect is not behind a Substitute, anything that can exploit its numerous weaknesses can KO it with ease, though they need to be careful switching in.</p>