[Overview]

<p>Quagsire returns for another round of OU, but unfortunately, its transition to BW2 was not a kind one. Quagsire is now overwhelmed by new threats such as Keldeo and Technician Breloom. Due to this massive increase in power, Quagsire's bulk and access to Unaware simply does not cut it in this fast-paced metagame. To make matters even worse, Quagsire faces stiff competition from Landorus-T, which packs Intimidate and Stealth Rock. However, as dire as things may have become for Quagsire, it still clings to its niche. Thanks to Unaware, it is capable of checking some of the more threatening physical boosting sweepers in the metagame, including Swords Dance Terrakion, Moxie Salamence, and Dragonite. This allows Quagsire to serve as glue to stall teams in need of a way to check boosting sweepers which would otherwise plow their way through the team. In short, Quagsire does have a unique niche in OU; just do not expect too much from it otherwise.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Scald
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Recover
item: Leftovers
ability: Unaware
nature: Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Quagsire's best bet at contributing to the team. Thanks to its rare Unaware ability and good defensive typing, it can check a myriad of boosting sweepers such as Swords Dance Terrakion, Moxie Salamence, and Thundurus-T. Scald is the primary move of the set; although weak coming off of base 65 Special Attack, its 30% chance of inducing a burn helps Quagsire's ability to check the threats it is supposed to. Earthquake is chosen here for STAB, and although Quagsire is rather weak, it can hurt some opponents, such as Terrakion and Magnezone, for a modest level of damage. Toxic is chosen here to poison bulkier targets, such as Jellicent and Dragonite, as Quagsire cannot hit them hard enough. Finally, Recover is chosen here as a form of recovery to ensure Quagsire will last long.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum EVs are invested into HP and Defense to provide the most physical bulk possible in order to check the threats Quagsire needs to. A Relaxed nature is chosen here in order to further compound this, while merely lowering Quagsire's already low Speed. Leftovers is chosen as the item for its consistent recovery. Stockpile is a very usable choice to buff Quagsire's defenses to high levels, and with Unaware's ignoring of stat boosts, Quagsire can very effectively utilize the move.</p>

<p>Quagsire dislikes Grass-type attacks, so Amoonguss makes for a great teammate, sporting good synergy with Quagsire while also incapacitating opponents with Spore. Blissey and Chansey are also good teammates as they are able to sponge special attacks while also providing Aromatherapy support, which is crucial for Quagsire should it be hit by status. Hazard support from the likes of Forretress or Ferrothorn is also appreciated, as Quagsire will be forcing some switches. The former can also provide Rapid Spin support to prevent Quagsire from getting worn down.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Quagsire has a couple of other options at its disposal. A specially defensive set is usable, but Quagsire will lose the ability to take on Terrakion and Salamence. Furthermore, most special attackers will still hit it hard due to Quagsire's poor Special Defense. Curse may seem like a cool boosting move to raise Quagsire's decent Attack and Defense, but this is generally not a good idea due to a poor Special Defense hampering Quagsire's ability to survive. Yawn is decent to induce sleep and cause switches. Counter is a decent move to deal heavy damage to most physical attackers, but this also requires Quagsire to take damage in order to deal damage, which is not always a good idea. Acid Spray allows Quagsire to run a special attacking set, but is outclassed by Tentacruel. Finally, Quagsire has Swagger to annoy the opponent with severe confusion damage and can work well with Unaware ignoring the Attack boost.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Grass-types are the greatest counters to Quagsire, as they can hit it 4x super effectively and resist both of its STABs. Abomasnow, Amoonguss, Celebi, and Ferrothorn are all good examples of these. Haxorus and Kyurem-B, thanks to Mold Breaker and Teravolt, respectively, laugh at Quagsire's Unaware and can boost and hit it hard with Outrage. Bulky Water-types, such as Jellicent, Slowbro, and Vaporeon, take little from Quagsire outside of Toxic, which the latter can ignore due to Hydration, and can wear it down with repeated Scalds. Users of Taunt, particularly Sableye, can shut Quagsire down while not taking much from its attacks. Quagsire is also prone to users of Choice Band. Finally, thanks to Quagsire's pitiful Special Defense, strong special attackers, such as Keldeo, Hydreigon, and Tornadus, can make quick work out of it.</p>