[Overview]

<p>Giving Riolu its own OU analysis may seem like a joke at first glance thanks to its bantam base stats, none of which exceed 70, but the Dream World has bestowed upon it a gift that makes common annoyers such as Jirachi and SubProtect Gliscor seem like pleasures to battle against: Prankster. With Prankster and its access to Copycat and Roar, Riolu can take on a niche as a priority phazer, something that no other Pokemon in the entire game can emulate. In addition, with the aforementioned combination of Prankster and Copycat, Riolu can also serve as an emergency revenge killer against severely weakened Pokemon.</p>

<p>However, not all is good for this little jackal, for there remain quite a few ways of derailing its Copycat-Roar strategy. Just like any Pokemon with Prankster, Magic Bounce Pokemon can turn Riolu's strategy on its head (in this case, by reflecting its priority phazing back upon it). In addition, Pokemon with Magic Guard can afford to be tossed around by Riolu, thanks to their immunity to hazard damage. Also, Protect users and faster priority attacks throw Riolu off, since Protect always goes before priority moves. In addition, even with an Eviolite attached to it, Riolu is incredibly frail, so it requires an immense amount of support to get off that first Roar. However, it would be absurd to disregard Riolu as a threat, because once it gets that first Roar off, Riolu can win the game for you.</p>

[SET]
name: pawns like dog
move 1: Copycat
move 2: Roar
move 3: Drain Punch 
move 4: Substitute
item: Eviolite
nature: Careful
ability: Prankster
evs: 248 HP / 112 Def / 96 SpD / 52 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As mentioned in the Overview, Riolu is the only Pokemon in the game with the ability to priority phaze, thanks to Prankster and its movepool, which contains both Roar and Copycat. After hazards have been laid down, Riolu can use Roar and Copycat to severely weaken, and in many cases, even sweep the opponent's team. Copycat and Roar are placed in the first two moveslots, as they form the crux of Riolu's strategy. Drain Punch gives Riolu a means of attacking when Copycat runs out of PP, and Substitute provides Riolu with a safety blanket against priority moves and status.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs and nature, factoring in the Eviolite boost, give Riolu 283 HP, 216 Defense, and 231 Special Defense, and enough Speed to Copycat a Roar before Scizor Bullet Punches Riolu into oblivion. Alternatively, a faster spread of 252 HP / 4 SpD / 252 Spe can be used with a Timid nature and Focus Sash if you want Riolu to outpace threats up to Adamant Breloom, which Riolu outspeeds by one point. Some EVs can be allotted to Special Attack if you need Riolu to Copycat attacks such as Starmie's Thunder and Latios's Draco Meteor. Riolu can run Sunny Day or Rain Dance if opposing weather is a bother to it.</p>

<p>Due to the nature of Riolu's strategy, entry hazards are mandatory when using it. Crustle stands out among all those that can supply the hazards demanded by Riolu, since it can get Stealth Rock and at least one layer of Spikes down quickly with Custap Berry, thanks to its low speed for a Spikes user. A spinblocker can and should be used to keep hazards up on the opponent's side of the field so Riolu can phaze with little difficulties. Among the spinblockers available, Gengar works best, due to its incredible speed and offensive prowess. Tyranitar is a fantastic partner, since it can easily remove Xatu and Espeon from play, though it should be noted that Sandstream renders Focus Sash useless. Wobbuffet and Gothitelle can both assume the role of trapper, thanks to their access to Shadow Tag, but both, despite having the same overall job, execute it in different ways. Wobbuffet can Encore set-up moves such as Swords Dance or Substitute, granting more switch-in opportunities so Riolu can get its game going. Gothitelle, on the other hand, can use a Choice Scarf and beat Pokemon that could possibly impede Riolu, such as Gliscor and Breloom. Scarf Gothitelle can also beat Starmie, other Spinners, and Magic Bounce Pokemon, giving more leeway to Riolu and any hazard setters being used alongside it. Riolu enjoys having a late-game sweeper like Salamence or Breloom that can clean up the remains of teams that Riolu has chewed through.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Riolu doesn't exactly have much to abuse with Prankster other than Agility, Iron Defense, Toxic, and Screech. Agility bolsters Riolu's Speed, allowing it to Copycat a Roar before Breloom's Mach Punch or Mamoswine's Ice Shard hits it, and Iron Defense braces Riolu for attacks such as Terrakion's Close Combat or Garchomp's Earthquake. Toxic helps break bulky walls and gives Riolu a way to annoy the opponent even after Copycat runs out of PP. If Riolu is paired up with a physical attacker, Screech is an option that helps force even more switches. Crunch hits both Magic Bouncers super effectively, but is otherwise an unreliable option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Riolu's largest fears are Xatu and Espeon, since they can turn Riolu's Copycat + Roar game against it, while also resisting Riolu's STAB and carrying moves that hit it super effectively. Alakazam, Reuniclus, Bronzong, and Gliscor don't exactly mind being phazed by Riolu, thanks to their abilities and typing. Also, Mr. Mime and other Pokemon with Soundproof will stop the chain in its tracks, thanks to their immunity to Roar. With the given EV spread, Riolu can Copycat a Roar against slower priority users such as Choice Band Scizor, but its priority phazing strategy falls flat against any Pokemon with a priority move and Speed greater than 169. Examples of such Pokemon are Dragonite, Mamoswine, Breloom, and anything with Fake Out and ExtremeSpeed, moves that transcend the priority given to Riolu's moves by Prankster. Protect ruins Riolu's Copycat + Roar game for the exact same reasons as Fake Out and ExtremeSpeed.</p>