[Overview]

<p>Swampert has always been known to be a Pokemon that possesses good bulk, decent offensive stats, and an auspicious typing, but it still faces competition with Gastrodon and Quagsire as a defensive Pokemon with Water / Ground typing. However, Swampert still has a niche; it can  still use an effective Choice Band set in OU. Due to new and more  powerful threats brought by BW2, it can no longer act as an effective wall, especially when walls such as Gliscor, Hippowdon, and Slowbro are available. Nevertheless, Swampert can still be an effective Pokemon in OU if it is used with the right support.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Waterfall
move 3: Superpower
move 4: Ice Punch / Stone Edge
item: Choice Band
ability: Torrent
nature: Adamant
evs: 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set utilizes Swampert's good bulk to tank hits and  retaliate by hitting hard thanks to the Choice Band boost. Earthquake is its main STAB move, which hits surprisingly hard, 2HKOing standard Ferrothorn after Stealth Rock damage as well as 2HKOing Jellicent. Waterfall hits opponents such as Gliscor hard, and it can even 2HKO Skarmory in rain, which is quite a feat. Superpower is mostly used to deal with Swampert's nemesis Ferrothorn, which has a good chance of being OHKOed by it. Ice Punch lets Swampert hit opponents such as Celebi and Dragonite hard, which resist the previously mentioned moves. Stone Edge is also a good option in the final slot, allowing Swampert to hit Gyarados hard, as it resists every move on the set except for Ice Punch.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Aqua Tail is a more powerful option than Waterfall, although Waterfall is generally preferred due to its better accuracy. The 30% flinch chance it occasionally provides can also be helpful to grab a 2HKO on opponents sitting at full health. The EV spread allows Swampert to hit as hard as possible along with an Adamant nature, while 84 Speed EVs are used to outrun minimum Speed Skarmory, allowing Swampert to 2HKO it with Waterfall in rain. The remaining EVs are placed in HP to allow Swampert to tank hits more easily. Politoed is an excellent teammate, as it can summon rain to boost the power of Waterfall. Magnezone can also be a great partner for Swampert, as it can trap and eliminate Ferrothorn and Skarmory, while being able to comfortably switch into  Grass-type moves aimed at Swampert. Magnezone also benefits from rain, allowing it to use a perfectly accurate Thunder, as well as eliminating its weakness to Fire-type attacks.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Swampert can also run a defensive set, as it has access to useful support options such as Stealth Rock, Roar, and Scald. Stealth Rock is beneficial to any team, as it weakens opponents and prevents opposing Volcarona and Dragonite from switching in at full health. Roar is useful to phaze setup sweepers Swampert might encounter, while Scald can burn opponents such as Ferrothorn, which is very useful. Swampert can also utilize a RestTalk set, although it isn't very effective in BW due to the sleep mechanics. Yawn can be used to force switches, but Roar is usually a superior support option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Celebi can comfortably switch into Earthquake, Superpower, or Waterfall and easily take down Swampert with Giga Drain or Leaf Storm, though it must be wary of Ice Punch. Ferrothorn can switch into Waterfall or Ice Punch with ease and take down Swampert with Power Whip, although it must look out for Superpower and Earthquake. Intimidate Gyarados does a good job countering Swampert, being immune to Earthquake, resisting Waterfall and Superpower, and only being hit neutrally by Ice Punch. Thanks to Intimidate, those moves shouldn't be dealing much damage to Gyarados, although it must still look out for the occasional Stone Edge. Dragonite only has to fear Ice Punch, but it resists Waterfall and Superpower, while also being immune to Earthquake. Thanks to its titanic Defense stat, Slowbro can comfortably tank any of Swampert's moves, and is only 3HKOed by Earthquake, which is Swampert's best option against it. Finally, Amoonguss resists Waterfall and Superpower, although it is 2HKOed by both Earthquake and Ice Punch.</p>