[Overview]

<p>With the departure of Deoxys-D from OU, Xatu's niche might have shrunk, but that doesn't mean it is useless. Magic Bounce is still as effective as ever, bouncing back entry hazards and status and also being a major nuisance to stall teams. Xatu is also one of the best checks to Technician Breloom, bouncing back Spore and resisting both of its STAB moves. Unlike other Flying-types, Xatu's Stealth Rock weakness is also alleviated with correct prediction. However, it is still forced out by most offensive Stealth Rock users, such as Terrakion and Landorus-T. Even with maximum investment, Xatu still has mediocre defenses and is also weak to Pursuit. However, unlike Espeon, its counterpart Magic Bounce user, Xatu actually has reliable recovery in the form of Roost. Xatu's access to U-turn also helps maintain the team's momentum while staving off entry hazards. Xatu also can take down the majority of the common Steel-type Spikers with Heat Wave. Although Xatu lacks many of the qualities that top-tier Pokemon possess, the enormous utility of Magic Bounce will be sought by players who requires heavy control of entry hazards.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility 
move 1: Toxic 
move 2: Roost
move 3: Heat Wave / Night Shade
move 4: U-turn 
item: Leftovers / Rocky Helmet
ability: Magic Bounce
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 200 Def / 60 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The main role of this set is to bounce back entry hazards and prevent them from going up on your side, deflect status, and maintain momentum. Toxic is the main move on the set, letting Xatu break down walls like Hippowdon, Chansey, and Donphan. Toxic is a very useful move because, without it, Xatu is forced into stalemates by many common targets. Roost is for healing off any damage that Xatu has taken. Roost also lets you PP stall moves such as Gyro Ball and ExtremeSpeed. Xatu has two main choices for direct damage moves. With Heat Wave Xatu breaks through Steel-types, which are common Spikers and are immune to Toxic. On the other hand, Night Shade allows it to cause more consistent damage. Remember to run an Impish nature when using Night Shade to increase the damage output of U-turn. On a sun team, Heat Wave is preferred because it gets a pseudo-STAB boost. The final move, U-turn, is useful for gaining momentum and mitigating possible damage from Choice Scarf Tyranitar's Pursuit. Leftovers is best to sustain Xatu's health, but Rocky Helmet does provide indirect means of significantly damaging the opponent, something that can always come in handy for Xatu's teammates.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given Speed EVs allow Xatu to strike before neutral-natured base 70s like Breloom as well as Timid Magnezone with 30 Speed IVs. The remaining EVs are invested in HP and Defense to provide as much physical bulk as possible. Xatu is mainly viable on offensive teams with members particularly vulnerable to entry hazards. Xatu is often able to bring in these offensive partners safely with its slow U-turn. Thunder Wave is an option to better threaten short-lived offensive threats, but note that some Pokemon, such as Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Hippowdon, are immune to it. Psychic is an option over Heat Wave and Night Shade because it receives STAB and deals super effective damage to Fighting- and Poison-types, such as Conkeldurr and Tentacruel. However the many Pokemon that resist or are immune to Psychic make this STAB an otherwise subpar option. If outspeeding Adamant Breloom isn't a priority, you can use 16 IVs and a Relaxed nature to ensure Xatu moves after Heatran, preventing it from setting up Stealth Rock the turn Xatu switches out with U-turn. Pursuit can be mitigated by using Reflect instead of U-turn in the last slot, but U-turn's enormous utility in creating momentum is usually preferred.</p>

<p>Good teammates for Xatu include Dugtrio and Choice Scarf Rotom-W. Dugtrio traps all of Xatu's counters bar Landorus-T and knocks them out with either Earthquake or Reversal. As Xatu tends to spam U-turn, it easily brings Dugtrio into battle. Dugtrio already serves as a crucial Pokemon for most sun teams because it traps Heatran and Tyranitar, Pokemon that sun teams struggle against. While Rotom-W cannot trap Xatu's counters, it still hits all of them for super effective damage. It can also check rain teams that aim mostly at Xatu's uninvested Special Defense. Terrakion is a good teammate for Xatu as well, as it can defeat most of Xatu's counters one-on-one. Ninetales appreciates Xatu's support, as repelling Stealth Rock will further increase Ninetales mobility and allow it to switch in without repercussions.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Xatu lacks many other viable options. A dual screens set is available, but Espeon is better suited for this role despite Xatu's access to Tailwind. Xatu can use Wish, but it can only pass its teammates a maximum of 166 HP, which is not enough to justify giving up the immediate recovery of Roost. Haze can be used to stop setup sweepers and Baton Pass chains. Hidden Power Ice can inflict notable damage on Dragon-types and Landorus-T, but Heat Wave is more useful for its ability to discourage Spikers. In conjunction with Thunder Wave, Xatu can pull off the annoying parafusion combo with Confuse Ray. However, Xatu has little room for it and generally misses the utility of its other moves. Sunny Day and Rain Dance can aid you in weather wars, but Xatu cannot threaten the opponent with the summoned weather. When used with a Choice item, Trick is a one-time maneuver to cripple a potentially significant threat.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>While walls will find it difficult to break through Xatu, there are several Stealth Rock users that force Xatu out. Terrakion, Heatran, Tyranitar, Garchomp, and Landorus-T are all prime examples. However, barring Landorus-T, these Stealth Rock users must be wary of being caught out by Dugtrio. Politoed does not enjoy being statused, but otherwise, it can switch into Xatu with relative ease and threaten it out with debilitating Scald burns or lethal Hydro Pumps. Tentacruel is immune to Toxic and resists both Heat Wave and U-turn, allowing it to fish for Scald burns or Rapid Spin to remove entry hazards that were bounced back. Jirachi in the rain has nothing but Thunder Wave to fear from Xatu and can proceed to either paraflinch (watch out for Rocky Helmet variants) or set up a Calm Mind or a Substitute.</p> 

<p>Despite Xatu's large investment in bulk, its flimsy defenses are broken by even moderately powerful moves, especially from the special side. Gengar can switch in on Toxic and OHKO Xatu with Shadow Ball. Electric-types such as Thundurus-T, Jolteon, and Rotom-W can all force Xatu out and use Volt Switch to gain a favorable matchup. Kyurem and Kyurem-B can switch in on all but Toxic to then dish out powerful hits behind 101 HP Substitutes that cannot be broken by Night Shade. Powerful special moves, such as a rain or Choice Specs-boosted Hydro Pump from Keldeo or a Draco Meteor from Latios, generally bring down Xatu.</p>