[Overview]

<p>Beheeyem is largely outclassed in its limited roles by the likes of Reuniclus and Musharna, but there are a few traits, such as a higher Special Attack stat (than Musharna) and access to Ally Switch, that let Beheeyem stand out. Since Beheeyem possesses a base Speed of 40, it can abuse Trick Room very well. Beheeyem is also a strong choice on any team that is in need of a Pokemon that can set up Trick Room. Other than having a typing that resists common Fighting-type attacks, Beheeyem is very poor defensively; 75 / 75 / 95 defenses mean that Beheeyem's survivability will be quite low. Beheeyem has access to Imprison and Trick Room, both of which can be used in different situations. For example, Imprison can be used to prevent the opponent from setting up Trick Room. All in all, Beheeyem can be an annoying Pokemon to face if played correctly.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Support
move 1: Psychic
move 2: Ally Switch / Shadow Ball / Thunderbolt
move 3: Trick Room
move 4: Protect / Imprison
item: Sitrus Berry / Mental Herb / Lum Berry
ability: Telepathy
nature: Modest
evs: 252 HP / 148 SpA / 108 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Beheeyem's stat distribution makes it ideal for setting up Trick Room as it is bulky enough to take one hit and a base 40 Speed stat allows it to function well in Trick Room. Psychic is Beheeyem's strongest option for a STAB move, and it hits common Fighting-types such as Terrakion for super effective damage. Ally Switch is what makes Beheeyem unique; it is an amazing defensive move that allows Beheeyem to take hits directed at its teammate and vice versa. It should be noted that Ally Switch gets +1 priority. Shadow Ball is the first alternative to Ally Switch; it hits opposing Psychic-types that would otherwise wall Beheeyem, such as Reuniclus and Musharna, for super effective damage. Thunderbolt, the second alternative, hits Flying- and Water-types such as Tornadus and Jellicent hard. By utilizing Team Preview, one can decide whether or not to set up Trick Room. For example, if the opponent's Pokemon are faster than yours, you should set up Trick Room, and if the opponent's Pokemon are slower than yours, then you shouldn't. Protect shields Beheeyem from Fake Out and can also be used for scouting purposes, such as to check if the opponent's Pokemon are carrying Taunt or not. Imprison is mainly to prevent slower teams from setting up Trick Room.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The reason why a Modest nature is used over a Quiet one is to ensure that Beheeyem is able to outspeed Trick Room users, such as Musharna, and successfully use Imprison to prevent them from setting up Trick Room. If the opponent isn't running a Trick Room team, a Modest nature still allows Beheeyem to be faster than the opposing Pokemon in Trick Room. 252 HP and 108 SpD EVs allow Beheeyem to survive a Shadow Ball from a Modest Chandelure, set up Trick Room, and hit back with either Shadow Ball or Psychic. The remaining 148 EVs are placed in Beheeyem's Special Attack to give it as much power as possible. Sitrus Berry recovers a decent amount of Beheeyem's health when it's low, thus, increasing Beheeyem's survivability. Mental Herb is useful against Taunt users as it prevents Taunt from affecting Beheeyem, but only once. Lum Berry prevents Amoonguss from putting Beheeyem to sleep, thus allowing it to set up Trick Room. Unfortunately, standard Amoonguss can survive a Psychic from Beheeyem. Telepathy is great ability to have in the VGC metagame as it prevents Beheeyem from taking damage from multi-target moves, such as Earthquake and Surf, from its teammates.</p>

<p>Scrafty has great synergy with Beheeyem; with Ally Switch, Beheeyem can take Fighting-type hits aimed at Scrafty, and Scrafty can take Ghost-, Dark-, and most Bug-type attacks aimed at Beheeyem. Fortunately, a Scrafty with a Brave nature works considerably well under Trick Room. A Quiet Chandelure with Protect is also a good teammate to have as it can quickly dispose of opposing Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon that threaten Beheeyem. In general, Pokemon that work well in Trick Room largely benefit from the Trick Room support that Beheeyem can provide.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Disable can be used to prevent an opponent from using its most effective move against Beheeyem. Though it may sound strange, Rock Slide is a viable option as Beheeyem possesses an unusually high base 75 Attack for a Psychic-type. Rock Slide allows Beheeyem to hit Chandelure, Tornadus, and Volcarona for super effective damage. By investing just 20 EVs in Attack, Beheeyem is able to 2HKO Charti Berry Volcarona. Nasty Plot can be used to boost Beheeyem's Special Attack to high levels, allowing it to hit opposing Pokemon very hard. Beheeyem also gets Recover, which is a nice option to have as it greatly increases Beheeyem's survivability. Hidden Power Fighting provides coverage against Dark- and Steel-types, such as Scrafty and Ferrothorn. Synchronize can be used over Telepathy, but when running Trick Room, paralyzing the opponent hurts you more than it hurts them. Simple Beam is a gimmicky option that can either be used on an ally with a boosting move (so that the boost obtained gets doubled), or it can be used on an opposing Pokemon to change their ability into Simple.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Scrafty is a big threat to Beheeyem as it is immune to Psychic, resists Shadow Ball, and works well in Trick Room. Scrafty can also threaten Beheeyem with a STAB, super effective Crunch. Volcarona can take a hit from Beheeyem and fire off a super effective Bug Buzz which will easily 2HKO Beheeyem. If Beheeyem isn't carrying Mental Herb, Taunt users are good counters to it, as Beheeyem's primary objective is to set up Trick Room. Ferrothorn easily walls Beheeyem as it resists Psychic, Shadow Ball, and Thunderbolt. Ferrothorn can also do good amount of damage to Beheeyem with a STAB Power Whip. Escavalier can take anything Beheeyem throws at it with ease and can tear apart Beheeyem with a powerful Megahorn. Hydreigon can OHKO Beheeyem with a Dark Gem-boosted Dark Pulse, while Beheeyem can hardly touch Hydreigon.<p>