[Overview]
<p>Stoutland's ability Intimidate, along with its decent Attack and defenses, allows it to serve as a usable attacker in VGC 2011. Unfortunately, Stoutland is weak to the very common Fighting-type attacks, which hampers its ability to abuse Intimidate. Overall, Stoutland's Intimidate is incredibly useful, and it can make a good complement to almost any team.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Return
move 2: Crunch / Thunder Wave
move 3: Helping Hand / Fire Fang
move 4: Protect
item: Chople Berry / Life Orb
ability: Intimidate
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Stoutland's ability Intimidate allows it to cripple opposing physical attackers, which means it can support its partner while dealing damage. Return is Stoutland's STAB move of choice, doing good damage to most offensive Pokemon, while Crunch hits Ghost-types such as Chandelure and Jellicent for super effective damage. Helping Hand lets Stoutland increase the power of a teammate's attack, which allows it to bypass its middling offenses when paired with a hard hitter such as Chandelure or Haxorus. Protect gives Stoutland the ability to avoid damage for a turn. The EVs and nature help Stoutland hit as hard as possible while retaining good bulk, and a Chople Berry allows Stoutland to withstand any Fighting-type attack and hit hard with Return.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Thunder Wave is used so Stoutland can take a hit and slow down its opponent, which works well in conjunction with Intimidate to support an attacking partner. This helps immensely against Tailwind teams, removing their Speed boost. Fire Fang is an option over Crunch, attaining super effective coverage against Steel-types, but Stoutland will then lose out to the common Ghost-types, making it the inferior choice. A Life Orb allows Stoutland to hit much harder, nabbing 2HKOs on most opposing Pokemon, but Stoutland's weakness to common Fighting-type attacks means that it requires significant support to function without a Chople Berry. A Jolly nature with 252 Speed EVs is feasible, as Stoutland is then able to outrun Adamant Krookodile and opposing Modest Chandelure, but detracts greatly from its bulk and power.</p>

<p>Stoutland's weakness to Fighting-type attacks and low Speed makes Tornadus an excellent partner, as it can eliminate opposing Fighting-types with its powerful Acrobatics while being able to set up Tailwind. This is extremely beneficial for Stoutland, as it gives a much needed boost to its Speed, meaning that it will be able to do much more damage. Chandelure also makes an excellent partner, benefiting from Intimidate due to its many weaknesses (most of which are to common physical attacks), and taking advantage of Stoutland's Helping Hand to boost the power of its Heat Wave to incredible levels. Archeops can take out any Fighting-type with its STAB Acrobatics, and can take advantage of Stoutland's Intimidate to cushion attacks against it, helping it to avoid being put into the range of Defeatist activation. Stoutland's Helping Hand can also boost the power of Archeops's Rock Slide, making it quite powerful. Amoonguss can easily take any Fighting-type attack and put an opponent to sleep with Spore, and any Psychic-type will also make a good teammate for Stoutland, eliminating most Fighting-types, as well as opposing Amoonguss, which easily weathers its assaults and uses Spore.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Stoutland has access to Ice Fang and Wild Charge, giving it super effective coverage on a multitude of targets. A Normal Gem-boosted Return OHKOes the genies, and as such is a viable choice for an item. Retaliate can be used as a STAB move, doubling in power if Stoutland switches in after a teammate is KOed, but it has a measly 70 Base Power otherwise, making Return the superior choice. Stoutland has access to Roar, which can stop Trick Room from being set up, but Rage Powder users such as Amoonguss and Imprison users such as Chandelure do a much better job of stopping Trick Room. Yawn allows Stoutland to force an opponent to switch or become incapacitated, but Pokemon such as Amoonguss with Spore do that much more reliably. Stoutland has access to both Rain Dance and Sunny Day, allowing it to support a weather team, but Pokemon such as Whimsicott and the genies can set up weather much more reliably due to Prankster. Sand Rush doubles Stoutland's Speed in a sandstorm, which can allow it to outpace and damage many of the Pokemon that would otherwise threaten it, but its mediocre offenses and movepool makes Excadrill a far better abuser of Sand Rush. Using Sand Rush also means Stoutland loses Intimidate, is perhaps Stoutland's main niche over other, more competent Pokemon.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Stoutland is weak to Fighting-type moves, and while Intimidate allows it to dampen their effects, it often finds itself unable to avoid a KO. Conkeldurr, Scrafty, and Terrakion can all do severe damage to Stoutland while not taking much damage in return, although a Chople Berry helps Stoutland to deal with some of these Pokemon. Stoutland's low Speed makes it susceptible to many faster attackers such as Haxorus and Archeops, but if Tailwind is up, Intimidate's ability to cripple an opponent's offensive presence and Stoutland's decent Attack stat will allow it to take out many opposing offensive Pokemon. Stoutland is unable to do significant damage to bulkier Pokemon due to its middling offenses, so most opposing Trick Room or Tailwind users can easily set up in its face, and many opposing support Pokemon such as Musharna or Amoonguss can easily take any of its attacks.</p>