[Overview]

<p>Zebstrika has the potential to be a formidable threat. This is made all the better by the fact that it is the closest thing to a 100% counter to Thundurus. Its ability, Lightningrod, raises its modest Special Attack stat to an acceptable level after the first boost, making it a powerful attacker and supporter. However, its terrible defenses often hold it back; even powerful neutral attacks are usually enough to take it down. Furthermore, without a Lightningrod boost, even Zebstrika's super effective attacks will often fail to KO the opposition, greatly impeding his clout. While it has subpar stats bar Speed, after a Lightningrod boost, Zebstrika can still easily stampede through teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Thundurus's Partner
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Hidden Power Ice
move 3: Overheat
move 4: Protect
item: Life Orb / Focus Sash
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Timid
evs: 52 HP / 252 SpA / 204 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Zebstrika makes a great partner alongside Pokemon weak to Electric-type attacks because of its ability, Lightningrod, which draws all Electric attacks towards Zebstrika and raises its Special Attack. Discharge users such as Thundurus also make wonderful partners due to their ability to boost Zebstrika while damaging the opponent. Overheat OHKOes most Steel-types. When holding a Life Orb, the combined damage of Thundurus's Electric Gem-boosted Discharge and Zebstrika's Lightningrod boosted Overheat will OHKO standard Amoonguss roughly 98% of the time. Life Orb is the preferred item, guaranteeing an OHKO on non-Yache Berry Landorus and Tornadus with Hidden Power Ice and Thunderbolt, respectively. Because of how frail Zebstrika and Thundurus are, a random Choice Scarf user can put the hurt on both of them; leading off with this combo may not be the best idea, however. Bringing in the duo later can be a much safer option, so as to not lose Zebstrika or Thundurus on the first turn to Choice Scarf users.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>It's important to note that Lightningrod will redirect even your own Electric-type attacks towards Zebstrika. The only exception to this is Discharge, which will hit all Pokemon on the field, Zebstrika included. Though Life Orb is usually the preferred item, Focus Sash remains an option because Zebstrika's paper-thin defenses rarely allow it to take even two neutral hits.</p>

<p>This set is meant to be used with a max Speed Thundurus. With 204 Speed EVs, Zebstrika will be one point slower than Thundurus, allowing it to attack after getting the Special Attack boost from Lightningrod. An alternative spread with 252 Speed EVs allows it to outspeed everything with Choice Scarf slower than Jellicent and Whimsicott. Only Accelgor is faster without a Choice Scarf. Unfortunately, this will make you faster than Thundurus, meaning Zebstrika's first attack will only be coming off of a base 80 Special Attack, unless Zebstrika is successfully switched into an Electric-type move or paired with a Choice Scarf Thundurus, which can be an effective partner. Zebstrika partners up well with other Choice Scarf users such as Jellicent and Terrakion, as well. It absorbs any Thunder Waves directed at them and gains a Lightningrod boost in the process, meaning not even Prankster Thundurus can shut them down.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>For such a fast Pokemon, it's a shame Zebstrika didn't get more support moves. Light Screen and Thunder Wave are probably its best options. Zebstrika is one of the best users of Me First, being able to OHKO unsuspecting Pokemon such as Hydreigon and Terrakion with their own STAB moves. However, Me First becomes easy to play around once your opponent sees it. Quick Attack can be used to pick off weakened Pokemon and gives you one last attack before being picked off by other priority users. Although it has higher Attack than Special Attack, a physical set is not nearly as effective due to Zebstrika's poor physical movepool and Lightningrod's ability to boost Zebstrika's Special Attack. Wild Charge, however, is more powerful than Thunderbolt initially, and can OHKO Jellicent. Motor Drive is almost always inferior to Lightningrod; even if you were to use a physical set, Zebstrika is usually the second fastest Pokemon on the field when used in combination with Thundurus. Lightningrod is more useful since it protects your teammates from Electric-type attacks regardless.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Trick Room in general is a good counter to Zebstrika due to Zebstrika and Thundurus being unable to KO common Trick Room starters. With its pitiful defenses, Zebstrika won't be taking many, if any, hits without Focus Sash after Trick Room is set up. Due to Zebstrika's mediocre Special Attack, most bulky Pokemon can take a hit and cause serious damage with a strong neutral attack. Seismitoad takes little damage from Hidden Power Ice and can OHKO with Earthquake. Besides Overheat, Amoonguss can sponge any of Zebstrika's hits pretty well.</p>