[Overview]

<p>As the only viable hail setter in the game, Abomasnow is relatively mediocre in the Ubers metagame. It faces stiff competition from Ferrothorn and Arceus-Grass for the title of bulky Grass-type in Ubers, but the combination of residual damage from hail and Leech Seed can give Abomasnow an edge over its competition. An unfortunate Stealth Rock weakness, seven very common weaknesses, a selfish weather&mdash;Kyurem-W is really the only thing that benefits from it&mdash;and abysmal stats hold Abomasnow back from being overly successful in Ubers. However, all isn't bitterly cold for Abomasnow, as its ability to summon permanent hail has its uses. Hail makes Kyurem-W all the more potent, allowing it to run Blizzard over Ice Beam. Abomasnow can also beat both Groudon and Kyogre with the help of previous damage via its exclusive STAB combination. Strangely enough, it also pairs well with both Kyogre and Groudon, forming a solid dual-weather core. Abomasnow sports a decent offensive movepool backed by a passable support movepool, allowing it to compete in such a powerful metagame. Abomasnow and hail are highly underrated and should be considered when team-building.</p>

[SET]
name: Leech Seed
move 1: Protect
move 2: Leech Seed
move 3: Grass Knot / Wood Hammer
move 4: Blizzard
item: Leftovers
ability: Snow Warning
nature: Calm / Sassy
evs: 248 HP / 8 SpA / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With the given EV spread, Abomasnow is capable of going toe-to-toe with Kyogre, avoiding the 2HKO from Choice Specs Water Spout 86% of the time while being able to switch in on Stealth Rock four times. Protect enables Abomasnow to stall and scout the opposing team while racking up residual damage from Leech Seed and hail. Besides additional residual damage, Protect also gives Abomasnow the chance to scout opposing Genesect, potentially locking them into U-turn, Flamethrower, or Iron Head, allowing an appropriate check to be sent out. Leech Seed provides Abomasnow with a means of recovery, keeping it alive for longer in the match. Leech Seed can also act as a deterrent, keeping many frail setup sweepers from staying in for too long. Grass Knot is STAB and allows Abomasnow to 2HKO Kyogre and Groudon, making it easier for other members of the team to bust through the opposition's weather. However, Wood Hammer hits threats such as Kyogre, Manaphy, and Ground Arceus harder, making it an acceptable choice over Grass Knot. If opting for Wood Hammer, run Abomasnow with a Sassy nature, in order to keep its Attack as high as possible while maintaining its Special Defense. Blizzard, now 100% accurate due to hail, is also STAB, hitting the multitude of Dragon-, Grass-, and Flying-type Pokemon available to Ubers. Blizzard is also useful for beating lighter Ground-types and other neutral switch-ins, as Grass Knot's base power varies from Pokemon to Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Substitute may be used in conjunction with or in place of Protect to help stall out the opposing team for longer and allow Abomasnow to fire off a Blizzard or Grass Knot. However, Abomasnow will be hard-pressed to find room to set up a Substitute in such a fast and powerful metagame. Ice Beam is a perfectly usable option over Blizzard if Abomasnow is going to be played outside of its weather for the most part, as it sports perfect accuracy and higher PP, while still doing similar amounts of damage to threats such as Rayquaza or Shaymin-S. Hidden Power Fire is the only move that prevents Abomasnow from becoming hazard-bait against Ferrothorn and Forretress, as Blizzard scores a 4HKO against Ferrothorn at best while failing to harm Forretress in the slightest. Focus Blast is necessary if one wants to remove Tyranitar, and can be used over its Grass-type STAB.</p>

<p>Abomasnow must be paired with a Pokemon that has access to Rapid Spin, such as Tentacruel, as Stealth Rock steals 25% of Abomasnow's health per switch-in. Tentacruel has great synergy with Abomasnow and can also lay Toxic Spikes, increasing the amount of residual damage Abomasnow can score through hail, Leech Seed, and Protect. Because of Abomasnow's many weaknesses, it's going to want teammates capable of absorbing those attacking types. Heatran is a solid answer to Steel- and Fire-type attacks directed at Abomasnow and Arceus-Ground and Dialga scoff at Rock-type attacks, while Dialga also resists any stray Bug-, Poison-, and Flying-type attacks that could be found in Ubers. Kyogre and Groudon, despite annulling the hail brought by Abomasnow, make for solid partners, as the tandem of either Abomasnow and Kyogre or Groudon really screws with other weather teams. Abomasnow and Kyogre share type synergy, with Kyogre resisting Fire-type attacks aimed at Abomasnow and Abomasnow resisting Grass- and Electric-type attacks aimed at Kyogre, making it easier to break through opposing sun teams. Abomasnow and Groudon work much in the same way really, sharing some defensive synergy&mdash;Abomasnow resisting Water- and Grass-type attacks, and Groudon resisting Rock-type attacks, busting through rain teams.</p>

<p>Ferrothorn on its own is a one-Pokemon check to Abomasnow, resisting its Grass-type STAB and taking mediocre damage from Blizzard, fearing only a stray Hidden Power Fire. Pokemon such as Magnezone, Ho-Oh, or Reshiram thus make excellent partners for Abomasnow, as their STAB Fire-type attacks or ability to trap Ferrothorn (in Magnezone's case) make quick work of it. Pokemon that are comfortable stomaching powerful Fire- and Fighting-type attacks, such as Giratina or Latias, make for excellent partners for Abomasnow, as they keep it safe from threats such as Ho-Oh, Terrakion, and Blaziken. Because Genesect is such a pain for Abomasnow, carrying a U-turn resist, such as Giratina or Dialga, and maintaining entry hazards and hail will help discourage it from staying in a match, keeping Abomasnow safe. Kyurem-W, although notorious for sporting similar weaknesses, likes being paired with Abomasnow, as it lets it forgo Ice Beam for Blizzard, nabbing an extra 25 points in Base Power, becoming even more of a menace.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A mixed set is somewhat viable in Ubers, but too many bulky checks exist and leave Abomasnow hard-pressed to do what it needs to do. A Choice Scarf set may seem plausible, but in a much stronger metagame than OU Abomasnow finds it difficult to compete with much of the unboosted metagame, let alone OHKO much of it. Choice Specs and Choice Band sets seem worthwhile, but Abomasnow is way too slow to attempt it in such a punishing metagame. In regards to all Choice sets, Abomasnow would also prefer not to be bouncing in and out of a match due to its vulnerability to all hazards (especially Stealth Rock), as it will find its HP nearing zero relatively quickly.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Steel-, Fire-, Fighting-, and Rock-type Pokemon and attacks are what Abomasnow have to look out for the most, as even a stray Hidden Power is capable of dealing serious hurt to Abomasnow. Faster Pokemon that gain STAB on these types and have no worries of switching in on Blizzard or Grass Knot, such as Blaziken, Ferrothorn, Ho-Oh, and Dialga, can immediately threaten Abomasnow with powerful STAB and/or super effective attacks or choose to set up as it flees. Genesect can pretty much tolerate anything Abomasnow can throw at it and use U-turn, Iron Head, Bug Buzz, or Flamethrower to quickly annihilate Abomasnow. Even powerful attacks with neutral coverage against Abomasnow, such as Draco Meteor from Kyurem-W, ExtremeSpeed from Arceus, or Psystrike from Mewtwo, will cause some extreme pain for Abomasnow, and can quickly put it into KO range.</p>