[Overview]

<p>In this guise, the Creator embraces the power of mystical telekinesis by attaching a Mind Plate to His Self. While His telekinetic Judgment doesn’t affect the magical creatures of nightmares and cannot sufficiently hurt His fellow telekinetics, He can focus and send a powerful blast of force to crush the nightmares and remain calm against His fellows, and eventually shock them with a powerful wave of psycho energy or a dark Payback for getting in His way. Despite these feats, the Creator faces stiff competition from His fellows, The Clone of The Ancient One and The Guardian Of The Seas: Mewtwo and Lugia, and must exploit being a hybrid of the two. He can beat them both, however, with the appropriate attack. Overall, the telekinetic Creator has improved over the years as He has completely broken free from all restrictions and has established His Self among the Titans.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Psyshock
move 3: Focus Blast
move 4: Recover
item: Mind Plate
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While it appears that Mewtwo outclasses Psychic Arceus as a Calm Mind user with its higher Special Attack, Speed, and access to the stronger Psystrike, Psychic Arceus has one very distinct advantage over Mewtwo: bulk. With fantastic 120 / 120 / 120 defenses, Psychic Arceus is much more difficult to revenge kill. Psyshock allows it to differentiate itself from other Calm Mind Arceus, dealing heavy damage to Blissey, Chansey, Kyogre, and Ho-Oh by preying on their weaker Defense. Psyshock also helps Psychic Arceus win Calm Mind wars against non-Dark-type foes, as Psyshock attacks the opponent's Defense instead of their Special Defense, ignoring any accumulated Calm Mind boosts. Focus Blast provides excellent coverage alongside Psyshock, hitting Steel-types and Tyranitar for super effective damage. Recover is used to keep Arceus alive for longer, and also lets it stack up more Calm Mind boosts.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Psychic Arceus has a huge special movepool; Ice Beam, Dark Pulse or Thunder can be used to hit Lugia, who otherwise walls Arceus. Dark Pulse has the added advantage of hitting Wobbuffet for super effective damage; its 20% flinch rate could also potentially bail Arceus out of a tight spot. Alternatively, Fire Blast hits Steel-types such as Scizor and Forretress harder. However, replacing Recover is not recommended at all, as Psychic Arceus's niche over Mewtwo is its superior bulk. Substitute can be used in place of Recover to avoid status, but as Psyshock dents Blissey and Chansey anyway, it is usually redundant.</p>

<p>The EV spread used is a simple offensive spread. An alternate spread of 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 Spe can be used in order to gain more Calm Minds instead of sweeping right off the bat. A Modest nature is preferred, as it gives Arceus maximum firepower as well as enough Speed to outpace Jolly Garchomp. Timid can be used to Speed-tie with other Arceus formes, as well as to outrun Thundurus, Tornadus, and Terrakion.</p>

<p>Darkrai and Lugia, as well as Ghost, Bug, and Dark Arceus, can cause problems for Psychic Arceus. Darkrai outspeeds Arceus, can put it to sleep with Dark Void, and set up with Nasty Plot. Bug and Dark Arceus can set up Calm Mind alongside Psychic Arceus, then strike it down with their super effective Judgments, although Dark Arceus needs to watch out for Focus Blast. Ghost Arceus can set up Calm Mind or Swords Dance alongside Psychic Arceus and destroy it with Judgment, Shadow Claw, or Shadow Force. However, the aforementioned Arceus formes, with the exception of Dark Arceus, should not try to defeat Psychic Arceus in a Calm Mind war, but instead try to KO it with a super effective Judgment as soon as possible, as Psyshock bypasses their Special Defense boosts. Lugia can simply wall Psychic Arceus, set up Reflect to weaken Psyshock, then use Toxic to stall it out. Wobbuffet resists both Psyshock and Focus Blast and can KO Arceus with Mirror Coat, or Encore a harmless move for a teammate to set up. Kyogre is an excellent teammate to Psychic Arceus; the Calm Mind RestTalk variant in particular can reliably check Darkrai and the aforementioned Calm Mind Arceus variants. Ho-Oh is also a fantastic check to other Calm Mind Arceus formes, thanks to its massive Special Defense and powerful physical STAB attacks. Defensively, Skarmory is one of the best counters to Swords Dance Ghost Arceus available, while offensively, a Darkrai of your own can outspeed it, put it to sleep and set up using Nasty Plot, provided that it avoids Brick Break.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility Counter
move 1: Payback
move 2: ExtremeSpeed / Zen Headbutt
move 3: Zen Headbutt / Will-O-Wisp / Earthquake
move 4: Recover
item: Mind Plate
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 132 Atk / 124 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Psychic Arceus is a very solid check to Psystrike Mewtwo in the rain. With its fantastic bulk and pure Psychic typing, Arceus resists both Psystrike and Aura Sphere while remaining neutral to Fire Blast and Ice Beam. Psychic Arceus can switch in on Mewtwo as it uses Calm Mind, taking very little damage from any of its attacks, and KOing with a combination of Payback and ExtremeSpeed. In addition to checking Mewtwo and other Psychic types, Arceus is a fantastic counter to Fighting-types such as Fighting Arceus, Terrakion, and Lucario, as well as Poison Arceus.</p>

<p>Payback is Arceus's main move, as it puts Mewtwo into ExtremeSpeed KO range. The third slot is variable: Zen Headbutt gives Arceus the ability to KO Fighting-types, while Will-O-Wisp allows it to cripple Scizor and Tyranitar, as well as physical Fighting-types. Note that using Will-O-Wisp will leave Arceus as setup fodder for Calm Mind Fighting Arceus, however. Earthquake is also an option as most common physical Fighting-types are weak to Ground, allowing Arceus to hit them, as well as Tyranitar, for decent damage. Zen Headbutt can be used over ExtremeSpeed if you can make sure that the rain is up at all times, enabling Arceus to free up a slot for Will-O-Wisp or Earthquake. Recover is used in the last slot to maintain Arceus's longevity.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs allow Arceus to survive a sun-boosted Fire Blast from +1 Psystrike Mewtwo, while allowing Arceus to 2HKO in return with Payback and ExtremeSpeed. A more defensive spread of 252 HP / 40 Def / 216 SpD with a Careful nature can be used to survive the 2HKO from Choice Scarf Kyogre's Surf, Choice Scarf Zekrom's Bolt Strike and other similarly powerful attacks. However, with such a spread, Arceus fails to 2HKO Mewtwo with Payback and ExtremeSpeed, and is in return 2HKOed by sun- and Calm Mind-boosted Fire Blast. As Psychic Arceus's main job is to counter Mewtwo, this spread is therefore not desirable. As for other move options, Flamethrower or Fire Blast can used to roast Forretress and Scizor to ash.</p>

<p>Scizor and Tyranitar can be huge problems to Psychic Arceus if it lacks Will-O-Wisp. Both can do huge amounts of damage to Arceus with their STAB moves if it stays in, or hurt it severely with Pursuit if it switches out. Scizor can also set up Swords Dance boosts in Arceus's face. Darkrai can easily switch into Arceus, put it to sleep with Dark Void, and set up using Nasty Plot. Kyogre is an excellent partner for this reason, as it can drown Scizor, Tyranitar, and Darkrai with rain-boosted Water-type attacks, while the rain it summons also helps Arceus counter Mewtwo more effectively. Dark and Bug Arceus can also set up quite easily on Psychic Arceus. Choice Scarf Terrakion can revenge kill both Dark and Bug Arceus while resisting their STABs; Ho-Oh is also a fantastic counter to Calm Mind Arceus variants.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Psychic Arceus can run a Swords Dance set consisting of Swords Dance, Zen Headbutt, Earthquake, and Recover, but it is not very good due to its poor Psychic STAB. Arceus also has plenty of other special attacks that it can use: Surf can be used to hit Tyranitar reasonably hard while retaining neutral coverage on Steel-types, and Grass Knot hits all common weather inducers for super effective damage. Finally, Judgment is Arceus's strongest STAB attack, but Psyshock is usually better as it is stronger against Blissey and Chansey. Arceus also has great support moves in Cosmic Power and Refresh, but a mono-attacking set is better run by Arceus formes with better STAB.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Dark Arceus is possibly the best counter to Psychic Arceus due to its immunity to Psychic-type moves. It will, however, need to watch out for Focus Blast. Bug and Ghost Arceus can Calm Mind alongside Psychic Arceus and strike it down with their super effective Judgment, but they should not drag out the Calm Mind war, as Psyshock will hurt. Lugia utterly walls Psychic Arceus, as it can set up Reflect and easily use Whirlwind to phaze out Psychic Arceus, or stall it out with Toxic. Darkrai can outspeed Psychic Arceus and put it to sleep with Dark Void, then set up with Nasty Plot. Wobbuffet is a huge thorn in Psychic Arceus's side, as it resists both Psyshock and Focus Blast while using Mirror Coat to KO Psychic Arceus easily. The countering utility set is not very threatening, and anything physically defensive can take it on without much trouble. If Arceus lacks Will-O-Wisp, Scizor and Tyranitar in particular cause it problems, as they can heavily damage Arceus with their STAB attack of choice, or use Pursuit to heavily damage Arceus should it switch out.</p>