[Overview]

<p>After the pre-battle tintinnabulation is complete, please stare in awe and wondrous presentiment at what is conceivably the best Pokemon in the entire game. His stats are unrivaled; versatility unmatched, and impact unquestionable. As ordained at the shaping of the universe, His purest forme is somewhat deficient in defensive synergy. A lone weakness to Fighting-type attacks is tempered with a sole immunity to Ghost-type attacks. But whether wiping His many creations from the fabric of existence as Extreme Killer or standing as their resolute guardian as Wallceus, the God of Pokemon knows no bounds. Dare not incur Arceus's divine wrath, or else the consequences shall be severe and merciless, and life shall become but an evanescent wisp.</p>

[SET]
name: Extreme Killer (Swords Dance)
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: ExtremeSpeed
move 3: Shadow Claw / Shadow Force
move 4: Earthquake / Brick Break / Recover
item: Silk Scarf / Life Orb / Lum Berry
nature: Adamant
evs: 200 HP / 252 Atk / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Extreme Killer's very good bulk and the priority of His ExtremeSpeed, He is very difficult to revenge kill. Combine it with a base 120 Attack stat, the ease of setting up a Swords Dance, and STAB on said ExtremeSpeed, and you get one of the best late-game sweepers in the entire game, capable of decimating offensive teams and cleaning up weakened defensive teams with ease.</p>

<p>Swords Dance will enhance the power of His STAB ExtremeSpeed to incredible levels. With just a Silk Scarf and Swords Dance boost, ExtremeSpeed is more than capable enough to OHKO even the deadliest of Uber titans, such as Kyogre, Kyurem-W, Mewtwo, Latias, Palkia, and Reshiram.</p>

<p>To repel the Ghost-types that can come in on ExtremeSpeed, Shadow Claw is the preferred option in the third slot for its high reliability. For those that crave more power, Shadow Force is another option. Its power after a Swords Dance is so extreme that even physically defensive Giratina risks being OHKOed without any hazards provided Arceus is Adamant and holding Life Orb; Giratina-O, Ghost Arceus, and Wobbuffet are easily OHKOed. Shadow Force also evades crippling support moves such as Will-O-Wisp during its charge turn, though the charge turn in itself can prove most inconvenient against Lugia and Normal-type Pokemon. For His last slot, Earthquake eradicates the Rock- and Steel-types that could otherwise take an ExtremeSpeed, such as Dialga or Heatran. Brick Break, though less powerful, breaks through troublesome screens and is significantly more effective against Bronzong, Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Wallceus. Recover improves His longevity and allows Him to act as a pivot at the detriment of coverage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With STAB ExtremeSpeed as His judgment, one might wonder why Arceus even bothers with Speed. After all, the given EVs and nature grant Him a superb combination of maximum power, bulk, and just enough Speed to outpace neutral base 95s. But alas, Arceus's incredible versatility allows Him to run several EV spreads just as effective as the last. Invest as many Speed EVs as desired to outspeed certain key threats. To outspeed positive base 90s like Timid Dialga, 124 Speed EVs is sufficient. 168 Speed EVs will outspeed any positive base 95s like Jolly Rayquaza. For other key threats, a Jolly nature becomes necessary. 160 Speed EVs is sufficient for outspeeding Terrakion. 176 Spe EVs will outpace positive base 110s like Froslass. Finally, 252 Speed EVs will guarantee a Speed tie against maximum Speed Arceus, which makes them unreliable answers, especially if they're using Will-O-Wisp. Once the desired Speed has been reached, maximize Attack and then place any remaining EVs into HP to improve His overall bulk. However, do recall that the greater the Speed investment, the lesser the bulk.</p>

<p>Unlike His other formes, Extreme Killer can utilize almost any item. For those seeking a balanced approach, Silk Scarf is the preferred option. It provides a 20% boost to ExtremeSpeed without compromising bulk. For a more offensive touch, Life Orb provides a great deal more power to all of Arceus's attacks, though the recoil damage is unfortunate. With just a Life Orb and Swords Dance boost, ExtremeSpeed is capable of OHKOing threats such as Kyurem-B, Zekrom, and tank Ho-Oh without any hazards. It is also the best item to use against His top defensive checks. If the Speed of Jolly is favored, Life Orb is recommended to compensate for the loss of power in comparison with Adamant. For those that favor one-time status protection, Lum Berry is the best option. It is particularly useful for its utility in lead positions and SmashPass situations. However, the power loss is substantial: without the boost from Silk Scarf or Life Orb, Arceus is unable to OHKO many Pokemon like Palkia and Mewtwo without sufficient entry hazard support. For those that wish to maximize Arceus's staying power, Leftovers takes full advantage of His bulk. It works well with a bulkier spread in combination with Recover, dropping Attack to make room for more defensive EVs. Power Herb can be used alongside Shadow Force and Stealth Rock support to always get past Lugia and specially defensive Giratina, but is very situational.</p>

<p>Although the given coverage moves are generally the most reliable, these slots are extremely flexible. A Life Orb-boosted Overheat incinerates Skarmory, Sableye, and Bronzong under sun, but is next to useless under rain. If Life Orb is forgone, Fire Blast is a better option while also having increased utility against Ferrothorn and Forretress. Dragon Claw can be used over Shadow Claw for its increased power against Giratina and Giratina-O, but loses utility against Lugia and Ghost Arceus. Grass Knot 2HKOes Groudon and Hippowdon on the switch, but restricts coverage substantially. Similarly, Safeguard can prevent status for multiple turns, while Substitute eases prediction, protects against status, and punishes revenge killers.</p>

<p>Two approaches exist to counteract Arceus: defensive titans and revenge killers. Defensive titans consist of Toxic stallers, phazers, or Will-O-Wisp abusers like Skarmory and Wallceus; revenge killers consist of Pokemon like Terrakion that can survive one of His faster boosted attacks comfortably yet deal considerable damage back. Arceus is specialized: He might be able to overpower several checks with a given moveset, but He is unable to overpower everything. As such, against defensive titans, the best support is to weaken any defensive Pokemon capable of dealing with His specialization beforehand. Luring them out and sufficiently damaging them will make the most of His sweeping abilities. Pokemon such as Blaziken, Groudon, Ho-Oh, and Rayquaza can make excellent lures, as Arceus's defensive answers are often used in response to these threats. Powerful wallbreakers such as Kyogre, Kyurem-W, Latios, Mewtwo, and Reshiram can blast holes through the opponent's team, possibly exposing these Pokemon as well as easing Arceus's sweep. Entry hazard shuffling is also beneficial in both the damage and exposure element. Finally, specific answers that can come in on troublesome defensive Pokemon happen to be excellent teammates. Magnezone can trap and eliminate Skarmory. Xatu and stallbreaker Heatran are excellent answers against Wallceus. Giratina and Lugia dislike Darkrai, Zekrom, Reshiram, and Kyurem-W.</p>

<p>Regarding revenge killers, the best support is to weaken them to the point where a faster boosted attack can OHKO, cripple their Speed, or reduce their offense to a manageable level. Entry hazards are very helpful for their damaging properties; Pokemon such as Deoxys-S, Ferrothorn, and Groudon are excellent entry hazard users. Lures such as Swords Dance Rayquaza or double status Darkrai can either deal considerable damage or cripple with status. Proper weather control through Pokemon such as Kyogre and Groudon is crucial as several revenge killers, such as Kabutops, Omastar, and Choice Scarf Heatran, are dependent on it. Dual screens from Pokemon like Deoxys-S and Latios can be helpful for softening enemy assaults. Carrying specific answers to His revenge killers is also a wise choice. For instance, Wobbuffet can dispatch Choice Scarf users while also buying Him a turn to use Swords Dance if necessary. Of course, keeping Arceus healthy is an option as most revenge killers are unable to OHKO Him should He be at relatively high health.</p>

[SET]
name: Wallceus (Physical Wall)
move 1: Will-O-Wisp / Reflect
move 2: Recover
move 3: Return
move 4: Roar / Perish Song
item: Leftovers
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 200 Def / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Standing up to the might of fearsome Uber titans, Wallceus can function as a nearly unbreakable wall. His Defense is so formidable that He is one of the best answers to even Extreme Killer. Although His Normal typing isn't exactly the holy grail of defensive typings, He stands out from His other formes with a lone weakness and the ability to hold Leftovers.</p>

<p>To keep the physical attackers at bay, Will-O-Wisp is the preferred option. It disables nearly every physical sweeper in Ubers&mdash;Groudon, Rayquaza, physical Arceus, Garchomp, and Zekrom, to name a few&mdash;with a crippling burn. However, Will-O-Wisp's accuracy is shaky and does nothing to Fire-type Pokemon like Ho-Oh. If these issues are bothersome, Reflect is a better option. Although it lasts only five turns and can be canceled by Brick Break, Reflect does not miss, benefits the whole team, and can affect physical attackers behind a Substitute. Recover provides reliable recovery and lengthens His staying power, while Return provides a solid STAB attack that increases offensive pressure. It also enables Him to defeat Extreme Killer without the need to phaze.</p>

<p>For His last slot, both options are useful for their utility against setup sweepers. Roar is the preferred option as it immediately phazes any threat that tries to set up, most notably physical attackers that have been neutralized by Will-O-Wisp or Reflect. It also weakens most switch-ins provided that there is sufficient entry hazard support. For those willing to take a longer approach, Perish Song is a better option. Although it takes three turns to have an effect, Perish Song will virtually guarantee an eventual switch and will place an inevitable end to last-Pokemon setup sweepers such as Calm Mind Arceus.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As the physical attackers of the Uber metagame have such destructive potential, bulk investment is mandatory to effectively take them on. Heavy investment in physical bulk is necessary to successfully tank Extreme Killer's ExtremeSpeed. As such, the given EVs and nature ensure maximum physical bulk while still allowing Him to outpace neutral base 95s. Nevertheless, Arceus can be specialized to outspeed certain threats. Most notably, 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe with a Jolly nature takes full advantage of His base 120 Speed. By outspeeding most physical attackers, such as Terrakion and Garchomp, Arceus can cripple them with Will-O-Wisp or set up Reflect before they can land an attack. However, by lowering His bulk, Arceus's ability to actually switch in on physical hits is diminished. It also makes Him significantly more vulnerable to faster attacks, most notably ExtremeSpeed.</p>

<p>Instead of running an attacking move, Wallceus can run a non-attacking move to provide additional utility. If status issues are particularly bothersome, Refresh is an excellent option. Status moves such as Thunder Wave or Toxic improve His status arsenal, while Magic Coat reflects entry hazards, status moves, or Taunt when used with proper prediction. Stealth Rock is also usable as a last resort. However, these options forsake offensive pressure as well as increasing His vulnerability to Taunt users. Iron Defense is a possible option over Will-O-Wisp or Reflect. Although it does not cripple the physical attacker and is dependent on Arceus's continued presence, Iron Defense does not miss, cannot be canceled by Brick Break, has greater defensive potential, and does not depend on status. It is also the superior option against Extreme Killer; only faster Life Orb Brick Break variants are capable of overcoming Him. Judgment can be used over Return along with a Bold (or Timid) nature and Ice Beam as the last moveslot. Ice Beam has increased utility against those vulnerable to Ice-type attacks such as Groudon, Zekrom, Rayquaza, and Garchomp, but is less effective against setup sweepers that are not. Of course, there are several options over Return. Although ExtremeSpeed has reduced PP and Base Power, it bluffs Extreme Killer and provides valuable priority. Flamethrower with a Bold nature incinerates Ferrothorn and Forretress. Earthquake shatters Heatran, which would otherwise wall this set completely.</p>

<p>Although Wallceus is difficult to take down, He is not invincible. Despite His very good uninvested special bulk, extremely powerful special attacks from the likes of Kyogre and Kyurem-W can be an issue. Tanking strong Fighting-type attacks from Pokemon such as Fighting Arceus and Heracross is also problematic. In addition, Wallceus lacks wide offensive coverage, which means He will always be vulnerable against certain checks as well as being possible entry hazard bait.</p>

<p>For teams that require a sturdy physical wall, Wallceus can be a fantastic choice. He provides excellent utility for dealing with physical setup sweepers, especially with access to Perish Song. However, because He is unspecialized against special attackers, Pokemon such as Kyogre, Chansey, Latias, Ho-Oh, and Lugia tend to be great teammates. In particular, Calm Mind users are excellent partners, since provided that Arceus is running Will-O-Wisp, any crippled physical attacker is significantly less threatening to their possible sweep. Wallceus also appreciates teammates that can take on His Fighting-type weakness. Giratina and Giratina-O are excellent examples, as not only do they pack an immunity to Arceus's lone weakness, but they also spinblock the hazards that He can utilize for wearing down the opponent's team. Speaking of hazards, Wallceus greatly dislikes opposing entry hazards, as they compromise His excellent bulk. As such, Forretress is a great partner thanks to Rapid Spin, an immunity to Toxic, and its ability to provide entry hazards.</p>

[SET]
name: Bandceus (Choice Band)
move 1: Trick
move 2: ExtremeSpeed
move 3: Swords Dance / Shadow Claw
move 4: Earthquake / Shadow Claw
item: Choice Band
nature: Adamant
evs: 200 HP / 252 Atk / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As befitting His stature, Arceus can utilize a Choice Band set to devastating effect. His value is not only in His ability to revenge kill threats such as Darkrai, Ho-Oh, and Rayquaza with a stronger STAB ExtremeSpeed, but also His ability to lure the common checks of Extreme Killer.</p>

<p>Utilizing the fact that Arceus is often assumed to be Extreme Killer, Bandceus can Trick a Choice Band to the incoming check, granting an opportunity for another sweeper to press their newfound advantage. After being Tricked a Choice Band, defensive answers like Skarmory and Lugia are turned into complete liabilities. However, Trick must be used with caution, for it is generally a one-way street. As such, it is critical that prior to using Trick, double switching is used to confirm the intended target is actually sent in.</p>

<p>Bandceus's remaining slots are dependent on His intended role. If sweeping potential is desired after His Choice Band has been Tricked, Swords Dance and one additional coverage move allows Him to take on a persona similar to Extreme Killer, albeit limited in coverage. Coverage moves can include Earthquake, which deals with Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon, or Shadow Claw, which deals with Ghost-types. If better coverage at the cost of sweeping potential is desired, both Earthquake and Shadow Claw combined will suffice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Much like Extreme Killer, Bandceus doesn't have much reason to bother with Speed. The given EVs and nature grant Him the same combination of maximum power, very good bulk, and just enough Speed to outpace neutral base 95s. But Bandceus, just like Extreme Killer, has a multitude of spreads that can be used. Invest as many Speed EVs as desired to outspeed certain key threats. Most notably, 168 Speed EVs will outspeed positive base 95s like Jolly Rayquaza, while a Jolly nature with 252 Speed EVs will guarantee a Speed tie against maximum Speed Arceus as well as outspeeding Terrakion. Once the desired Speed has been reached, maximize Attack and then place any remaining EVs into HP to improve His overall bulk. However, do recall that the greater the Speed investment, the lesser the bulk.</p>

<p>For those that prefer more power and PP, Return can be used over ExtremeSpeed. It is capable of 2HKOing Lugia after Stealth Rock, but the loss of priority hinders His revenge killing capabilities, His sweeping potential, and His Extreme Killer disguise. Dragon Claw can be used over Shadow Claw for its chance of 2HKOing physically defensive Giratina-O after Stealth Rock, but loses utility against Ghost Arceus and Bronzong. Likewise, Punishment can be used for its utility against Calm Mind users such as Ghost Arceus, Giratina-O, and Latias, but is rather dependent on the opponent's boosts. For those seeking improved performance against Bronzong and Ferrothorn as well as the cancellation of screens, Brick Break can be used over Earthquake, though is otherwise much weaker in general.</p>

<p>When running Bandceus, one must be very careful to avoid running an inferior Extreme Killer. He has much less sweeping potential, so in order to justify His usage over Extreme Killer, it is critical that His lure and revenge killing capabilities are taken advantage of. As such, it is mandatory that He is paired up with offensive Pokemon that can take advantage of Extreme Killer's crippled checks. Good examples range from Blaziken to Ho-Oh and Groudon to Rayquaza. Regarding Arceus Himself, it is important to patch up any moveslot shortcomings. For example, should He be running Earthquake as His sole coverage move, some way of dealing with Giratina-O is essential. Of course, carrying teammates that specifically deal with His checks and counters is a very wise choice. For example, Latias deals with Fighting Arceus, while Giratina or Giratina-O have an immunity to His only weakness and can spinblock.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>With His extraordinary movepool and His second to none stats, Arceus can fill almost any role. He could run a Calm Mind or Work Up set to utilize His excellent stats. He could run a Perish trapping set with Perish Song and Whirlpool. He could run a dual screens set in combination with Light Clay. He could run a Choice Specs set, a specially inclined version of the Choice Band set. Or He could run a Swords Dance Last Resort set to obliterate anything that is not a Ghost-type. For all intents and purposes, the choice is entirely up to you.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, due to Species Clause, only a single Arceus is allowed on a team at a time. As such, the opportunity cost of running such sets will be high. Indeed, these sets are unorthodox for a reason: the Calm Mind and Work Up sets have horrible STAB coverage in comparison to other Arceus formes; Perish trapping is extremely unreliable in Ubers; dual screens is best left to other Pokemon; the Choice Specs set lacks power plus utility; and the Last Resort set requires a considerable amount of support. That being said, if these sets are of particular interest, then feel free to use them.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Should you see Arceus on Team Preview, it is critical to rule out the presence of Extreme Killer before letting your answers to Him become compromised. While there is no true counter to Extreme Killer outside of Unaware Quagsire, there are four that can easily deal with Him for the most part: Skarmory, Wallceus, Great Wall Giratina, and Multiscale Lugia. All four of these checks can either stall Extreme Killer to death should they be healthy or phaze Him in the scenario that they are weakened or unwilling to risk a possible miss. However, even the toughest of checks can fall to the right move or item, albeit in circumstantial situations. Toxic Skarmory falls to non-rain Overheats and Fire Blasts and has to be wary of last-Pokemon +6 Brick Breaks. Faster, boosted, Life Orb Brick Breaks overpower Wallceus, while last-Pokemon Lum Berry Brick Break variants are problematic should He be running the shaky Will-O-Wisp. Similarly, Giratina bows down to a boosted Shadow Force, last-Pokemon Lum Berry Shadow Claw variants, or last-Pokemon Recover variants with Shadow Claw. Reflect + Toxic Lugia is overwhelmed by boosted Life Orb Shadow Claws after Stealth Rock. All of them must also watch out for the rare Bandceus that can Trick a crippling Choice Band.</p>

<p>Rather than pseudo-countering Extreme Killer, it is easier to keep Him in check using multiple Pokemon through concerted means. For example, although Choice Scarf Terrakion cannot switch into Earthquake, it can easily survive a boosted ExtremeSpeed and revenge kill with Close Combat. However, should Arceus manage to survive, a combination check can be used to finish Him off. Offensive Ghost Arceus is an excellent example, as His immunity to ExtremeSpeed allows Him to revenge kill weakened Extreme Killer. With smart combinations of both strong and lesser checks, the application of high pressure to limit setup opportunities, and careful conservation of these aforementioned checks, it is more than possible to deal with Extreme Killer.</p>

<p>Thanks to priority Will-O-Wisp and Foul Play, Sableye is an excellent check. However, it will lose to sun-boosted Life Orb Overheat or Lum Berry Earthquake variants after Stealth Rock. Support Ghost Arceus can be used similarly to Wallceus, but the lack of Leftovers, a strong attacking move, and His weakness to Shadow Force and Shadow Claw makes Him the lesser check. Physically defensive Groudon and Hippowdon are very effective phazers, but can be worn down. Rock and Steel Arceus can also use a support set like Ghost Arceus, but the weakness to Earthquake and Brick Break is quite unfortunate. Likewise, Fighting Arceus favors an approach similar to Terrakion, but obtains reliable recovery and bulk at the cost of power and the resistance to ExtremeSpeed. Thankfully, Arceus formes that carry Plates are very effective against Bandceus, though they dislike taking super effective attacks.</p>

<p>Although it loses to Brick Break and non-rain Overheats and Fire Blasts, a physically defensive Bronzong can stall many variants. Along the same lines as Terrakion and Fighting Arceus, other revenge killers can include Choice Scarf users such as Dialga and Heatran or Swift Swim users such as Kabutops and Omastar. However, they are generally less effective due to their weather dependency or lack of power. A physically defensive Giratina-O variant can survive any boosted move bar Shadow Force or possibly Dragon Claw and either Will-O-Wisp or phaze Him out. It also has an immunity to Trick, which is handy against Bandceus. Choice Band Landorus-T and Scizor can tank a boosted attack and inflict severe damage or possibly OHKO with Superpower, but have to be perfectly conserved. An utmost conserved physically defensive Forretress can triumph using Toxic and Pain Split, but will still lose to Fire Blast and Overheat. It also loses to Life Orb or Lum Berry Earthquake variants, but is still able to cripple Him. Similarly, physically defensive Ferrothorn is an annoyance with Leech Seed and Iron Barbs, but performs best when used as a combination check. If all else fails, faster Pokemon that are immune or resistant to ExtremeSpeed can attempt to use Destiny Bond, Trick, or Explosion to stop His sweep, but it will almost always result in their loss. Similarly, although no Intimidate user can truly stand up to Extreme Killer, the Attack drop might allow others to defeat Him.</p>

<p>It should be noted that as Wallceus is more inclined to defeating answers with attrition, He necessitates a very different response than that of Extreme Killer. Thanks to STAB Fighting-type attacks and Recover, Fighting Arceus is Wallceus's best counter. Fire Arceus is similar and has an immunity to burn, but lacks Fighting Arceus's consistent damage. Despite its vulnerability to attrition and lack of reliable recovery, stallbreaker Heatran shuts down any Wallceus that lacks the obscure Earthquake thanks to Taunt and Toxic.</p>

<p>Any other answer to Wallceus is either easily worn down, can be phazed before significant damage is done, or is vulnerable to Return. Magic Bounce Xatu can switch into any move besides Return after Stealth Rock or Ice Beam and proceed to completely wall Arceus. Heracross can take advantage of a possible Attack boost through Guts, allowing it to pulverize Him with Close Combat. Reshiram and Victini roast Arceus with their powerful STAB Fire-type attacks. Blaziken smashes Him with Hi Jump Kick or sun-boosted Flare Blitz, but has to be mindful of Reflect. Strong special attackers such as Kyogre and Kyurem-W are particularly threatening due to Wallceus's lack of specialization against special attackers. Should the weather be sun, Ho-Oh can switch into any move but Return after Stealth Rock and proceed to deal considerable damage with Sacred Fire. However, Reflect variants actually wall Ho-Oh despite the sun boost, though the possible burn is an annoyance. Support Pokemon that can inflict detrimental status effects like Toxic poison, preferably with a method of alleviating status, can be quite effective against Wallceus. However, they are significantly less viable against Refresh variants.</p>