[Overview]

<p>The oldest Pokemon returns, in His fossil form, to the treacherous environment known the BW Uber metagame, by holding a Stone Plate. While He has not been given anything new other than the ability to use full EVs, Rock Arceus can now effectively counter quite a few new Pokemon. With excellent all-round stats, He is one of the few Pokemon who can boast being able to counter both Ho-Oh and Reshiram. In sandstorm, His Special Defense is so massive that even unfathomably powerful attacks such as Draco Meteor from Choice Specs Dialga simply bounce straight off. Rock Arceus is possibly one of the most versatile and unpredictable Arceus formes, being able to utilize Calm Mind and Swords Dance with equal efficiency, while also being able to serve as a fantastic support Pokemon.</p>

<p>This is not to say that Rock Arceus is without His downsides. While His defenses are phenomenal, especially in a sandstorm, His Rock typing gives Him weaknesses to five very common attacking types. A susceptibility to all three forms of entry hazards and somewhat of an over-reliance on weather in a tier littered with Toxic Spikes and weather changers do not help His cause, either. Use Rock Arceus to His advantages and He will be a great asset, but you must be aware of His weaknesses.</p>

[SET]
name: Mono-Attacker
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Recover
move 4: Will-O-Wisp / Refresh
item: Stone Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Rock Arceus's huge bulk and great STAB allow it to run an effective mono-attacking set. This set is useful for a number of reasons. First, with sandstorm support and its pure Rock typing, Arceus is a fantastic counter to many dangerous Pokemon. With its Rock-type Judgment, it can quickly put Ho-Oh and Reshiram in their place; with Will-O-Wisp, it can easily cripple Normal Arceus, making it an excellent check to the Extreme Killer while maintaining a STAB with decent coverage. Under sandstorm, it can also switch into some of the most powerful special attacks in the Uber tier. For example, Draco Meteor from Modest Choice Specs Dialga only does 53.60% - 63.51%, allowing Rock Arceus to heal off the damage and stall Dialga out. Second, access to Calm Mind lets Rock Arceus switch from a defensive Pokemon into a deadly sweeper in the blink of an eye, and any team that lacks an appropriate counter for it will quickly be crushed. This allows Arceus to easily control the tempo of the match, switching between offense and defense at will. While this set is at its best on sandstorm teams, its utility does not end there. On a sun team, it works as an excellent check to opposing Fire-types, who become even more dangerous in the sun.</p>

<p>Calm Mind is obviously the crux of the set, boosting Arceus's excellent Special Attack to levels where it can sweep, while skyrocketing its already bloated Special Defense to untouchable levels. Judgment is obviously Arceus's STAB, while Recover allows it to switch in and tank hits again and again. The last slot comes down to the user's preference. Will-O-Wisp complements Calm Mind and Judgment almost perfectly, enabling Arceus to cripple physical attackers such as Groudon and Garchomp. Refresh, on the other hand, allows Arceus to laugh off status, especially from the likes of Blissey and Chansey.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Roar is usable over Will-O-Wisp or Refresh to allow Arceus to defeat opposing Calm Mind users that might attempt to engage in a Calm Mind war. Substitute lets Arceus get past Chansey and Blissey, but Refresh is better overall due to its ability to cure poison inflicted by Toxic Spikes. Otherwise, stick to the moves given for maximum efficacy. The EVs and nature aim to maximize bulk while allowing Arceus to Speed tie with opposing Arceus.</p>

<p>Rock Arceus is obviously best used in sandstorm, which means Tyranitar or Hippowdon should be used alongside it. Unfortunately, this doubles up on weaknesses to Water, Grass, Ground, Steel and Fighting, so teammates that resist these types are helpful. Shaymin-S is an excellent Pokemon to run alongside Arceus, as it resists most of Arceus's weaknesses, while Arceus can easily take Fire-type moves and weaker special attacks, such as Ice Beam, for Shaymin-S. Giratina and Lugia also have great synergy with Rock Arceus, as they switch into most of Arceus's weaknesses with ease. Giratina is especially good because it can switch into Choice Scarf Terrakion and Choice Scarf Heracross, who can both deal huge amounts of damage to Rock Arceus, the latter enjoying Will-O-Wisp as well.</p>

<p>While this set can be extremely threatening, it is hard-countered by Ground, Steel, Fighting, Grass and Water Arceus, who can all set up Calm Mind alongside Rock Arceus and bring it down with their own super effective Judgments. Ho-Oh is an excellent counter to all of the aforementioned Arceus formes barring Water Arceus due to its huge Special Defense and powerful STAB attacks. Fighting Arceus can also be defeated easily by Psystrike Mewtwo, provided that it avoids switching into Shadow Ball or Dark Pulse. Dialga can deal with Water Arceus without much trouble. If Rock Arceus lacks Refresh, Chansey and Blissey can easily take anything it throws at them and cripple it with Toxic; if it lacks Will-O-Wisp, Groudon and Garchomp can freely switch in and take it out with super effective Earthquakes. As sandstorm will likely be used alongside Arceus, Excadrill can easily switch into Chansey and Blissey, as it is immune to both Thunder Wave and Toxic, and proceed to set up Swords Dance to sweep; Scizor and Lucario can work in a similar fashion. Finally, Kyogre is also a huge problem to Rock Arceus, as it is able to use Calm Mind alongside Arceus and drown Arceus with its Water STAB, while Choice Scarf variants can outspeed and OHKO with Water Spout. Grass-types such as Celebi, Virizion and Shaymin-S synergize well with Arceus; Palkia also boasts the ability to switch into Kyogre's STAB attacks with its 4x resistance to Water.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Fire Blast / Grass Knot
move 4: Recover / Grass Knot
item: Stone Plate
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While the previous set focuses on using Rock Arceus's defensive capabilities to pull off a sweep, this set takes full advantage of its excellent Special Attack, Speed, bulk, and coverage to pull off a sweep as quickly as possible. After a single Calm Mind, Arceus reaches a maximum of 558 Special Attack, with which it can deal huge amounts of damage to weakened teams. Judgment is Arceus's STAB attack, which hits most Pokemon that do not resist it extremely hard. Fire Blast allows Arceus to roast Steel Arceus that might attempt to Calm Mind alongside it, as well as other Steel-types, such as Ferrothorn and Jirachi. Grass Knot, on the other hand, lets Rock Arceus destroy any Groudon and Kyogre that think they can change the weather and stop Arceus with their super effective STAB attacks. Recover is preferred in the last slot, as it enables Arceus to still check dangerous threats such as Reshiram and Ho-Oh, but an additional coverage move can be used for maximum coverage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are simple: they just maximize Special Attack and Speed, allowing Arceus to be as fast and as powerful as possible. A Timid nature allows Rock Arceus to Speed tie with other Arceus formes, and also lets it outspeed Lugia, Latias, Latios, Terrakion, Tornadus, and Thundurus; alternatively, a Modest nature enables Arceus to hit harder while still outspeeding non-Choice Scarf Garchomp. Earth Power can be used in place of Fire Blast or Grass Knot to hit Dialga harder, but with Recover, Rock Arceus can set up on specially based Dialga that lack Toxic, Roar, or Dragon Tail anyway. Ice Beam can also be used to defeat Garchomp, who can otherwise cause Arceus a lot of trouble, but it is quite useless otherwise.</p>

<p>Like all Rock Arceus variants, this set is hard-countered by Fighting Arceus. Again, Ho-Oh and Mewtwo are excellent teammates for this reason. Chansey and Blissey now completely wall this set, so again, Excadrill is a good teammate, as are Scizor, Terrakion, Garchomp, and Lucario. Wobbuffet can be used to trap Chansey or Blissey through the use of Encore and Tickle, allowing Tyranitar to come in and Pursuit them to and ensure they cannot take Rock Arceus's attacks any more. Garchomp resists both Judgment and Fire Blast, does not take much damage from Grass Knot, and can defeat Arceus with STAB Earthquake. Physically inclined Dialga, especially those with Bulk Up, can set up alongside Rock Arceus and destroy it with Outrage or Earthquake. Speaking of Dialga, a Bulk Up RestTalk Dialga of your own can come in very handy, as it can switch into Chansey and Blissey with impunity, as well as check Water Arceus and Calm Mind Kyogre. It can also lure in Garchomp, survive Earthquake, and OHKO in return with Outrage. Forretress and Ferrothorn are decent checks to opposing Garchomp as well, and can set up Stealth Rock and Spikes, which would whittle down Garchomp and stop it from walling Rock Arceus.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Stone Edge
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Recover
item: Stone Plate
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Rock Arceus is one of the select few Arceus formes that can viably run a Swords Dance set, and also the only Swords Dance Arceus that can defeat Skarmory without depending on weather. While Swords Dance Arceus may seem more appealing than its Calm Mind counterpart due to its ability to boost more quickly, Swords Dance Arceus does have a few disadvantages. Firstly, it can no longer switch into Ho-Oh as easily, as Sacred Fire has a 47.5% chance of crippling it, factoring in accuracy. Secondly, it is very easily walled, especially by Groudon, who poses a huge threat to sandstorm teams in general. That being said, Swords Dance Rock Arceus is still an extremely potent sweeper. To illustrate its power, after a single Swords Dance, Jolly Arceus can OHKO specially defensive Skarmory after Stealth Rock damage most of the time. Stone Edge is Rock Arceus's powerful—albeit inaccurate—STAB attack; STAB Stone Edge is what differentiates Rock Arceus from Ground Arceus, who can run a similar set. Earthquake gives Arceus fantastic coverage alongside Stone Edge. Recover allows Arceus to recover lost health and check threats such as Reshiram more easily.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Arceus has a few other options it can run in the last slot. Overheat allows Rock Arceus to deal huge amounts of damage to Ferrothorn outside of rain; it would otherwise prove to be a huge nuisance. ExtremeSpeed lets Arceus take out frail, faster Pokemon such as Shaymin-S and Darkrai, while Brick Break can be used to beat down Ferrothorn in the rain. A Jolly nature is preferred as it allows Rock Arceus to Speed tie with opposing Arceus as well as outspeed Terrakion and Lugia, two Pokemon who would otherwise be problematic. However, an Adamant nature guarantees the OHKO on Skarmory after Stealth Rock damage.</p>

<p>Fighting Arceus remains a hard counter to this set as well. Again, Ho-Oh and Mewtwo are fantastic checks to Fighting Arceus; they also laugh at Virizion, who resists Stone Edge and Earthquake. Groudon and Ground Arceus now wall Rock Arceus and take it out with a super effective Earthquake or Judgment. A healthy Garchomp will cause problems for Rock Arceus too. Again, Grass-types such as Shaymin-S, Virizion and Celebi do very well against these Ground-types, and if you are using Rock Arceus as a standalone Pokemon, a Groudon of your own also defeats them quite handily. Additionally, Ferrothorn is a problem if Arceus lacks Overheat; Magnezone can be used to trap and KO it.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>While Arceus has an abundant special movepool to work with, none of its other options add more coverage than what is recommended. Flamethrower can be used if you find Fire Blast's accuracy off-putting. Focus Blast hits Steel-types and Dialga super effectively in place of Fire Blast, but its inaccuracy makes it a poor option. Thunder hits Kyogre extremely hard while having a high paralysis chance, but as Grass Knot does the same amount of damage to Kyogre, Thunder is generally not preferred.</p>

<p>Rock Arceus can run a mono-attacking Swords Dance set with Swords Dance,  Recover, Refresh, and Rock Slide, but Calm Mind is generally better; regardless, such a set is much easier to wall. Arceus can run a rather useful dual screens set, as well as a very bulky Cosmic Power stall set. It can also drop Calm Mind on the mono-attacker set to run a full support set with Roar, Perish Song, or Stealth Rock in its place, should you desire it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As alluded to in the individual set descriptions, Fighting Arceus is Rock Arceus's number one enemy. As it resists Rock Arceus's STAB and is neutral to Rock Arceus's commonly used coverage moves, it can easily set up Calm Mind alongside Rock Arceus and take it down with a super effective Fighting-type Judgment. Steel and Ground Arceus can work in a similar fashion, but need to watch out for Fire Blast and Grass Knot, respectively. Grass and Water Arceus both have a super effective Judgment to use on Rock Arceus as well, but need to watch out for Fire Blast and Grass Knot, respectively, while boosted neutral Rock-type Judgments will also hurt.</p>

<p>Any special variant of Rock Arceus that lacks Substitute or Refresh is walled by Chansey and Blissey, who can both shrug off any attack Arceus can throw at them and cripple Arceus with Toxic. If Arceus lacks Grass Knot or Will-O-Wisp, Groudon can switch in without fear and KO it with Earthquake. Garchomp works in a similar vein, only fearing the rare Ice Beam, whereas Excadrill can switch into anything not named Earthquake, Will-O-Wisp, or Fire Blast, and KO with Earthquake. Kyogre causes problems for special variants of Rock Arceus that lack Grass Knot, as its enormous Special Defense allows it to tank anything Rock Arceus throws at it, while Arceus is forced to switch to avoid taking STAB Water-type attacks to the face. Choice Scarf Kyogre can outspeed and OHKO Rock Arceus with Water Spout, even after a Calm Mind. Choice Scarf Terrakion and Heracross can revenge kill weakened Rock Arceus, the latter also enjoys being burned by Will-O-Wisp. Groudon and Ground Arceus will have a field day against Swords Dance Rock Arceus, while Giratina and Ferrothorn can use Will-O-Wisp or Leech Seed to stall out Rock Arceus. Be aware that should Arceus carry Overheat, Ferrothorn should stay well away unless it has rain support.</p>