[Overview]

<p>Great offensive stats, overall defenses that are better than most dedicated walls, and a wide movepool all make Arceus a top-notch threat in Ubers. Furthermore, Fighting Arceus has several advantages over other Arceus formes. First, Fighting Arceus lacks common weaknesses, which makes Him rather hard to take down, especially after a few Calm Mind boosts. Resistances to common attacking types in Dark, Rock, and Bug also allow Fighting Arceus to switch into attacks with relative ease. However, Fighting Arceus isn't without His cons: for example, Fighting-type STAB is not great in Ubers thanks to the popularity of Psychic-types. Nevertheless, Fighting Arceus should not be taken lightly, as He is still a threat every team should prepare for.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Ice Beam / Dark Pulse
move 4: Recover
item: Fist Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Like every other Arceus forme, Fighting Arceus possesses awesome base 120 stats across the board, and is blessed with a wide special movepool, including coveted moves in Calm Mind and Recover. Fighting Arceus separates itself from the pack with its uncommon typing, which gives it some oddly useful resistances and few weaknesses. All these traits come together to make Fighting Arceus one of the best users of Calm Mind in Ubers.</p>

<p>Judgment is its primary STAB move, and can severely dent any Pokemon who doesn't resist it after Fighting Arceus has notched up two Calm Minds. Two Calm Minds propels Fighting Arceus's naturally great Special Attack stat to a mammoth 554. Ice Beam widens Fighting Arceus's coverage, and hits several important Uber sweepers, namely Zekrom, Groudon, Rayquaza, Garchomp, and Shaymin-S, for super effective damage. Volcarona and Chandelure are the only Pokemon who resist the combination of Fighting and Ice, and fortunately, neither are seen much in Ubers play. Dark Pulse allows Fighting Arceus to hit Ghost-types, who are immune to Fighting Arceus's primary STAB, for super effective damage; it also hits the horde of Psychic-types in Ubers, especially Mewtwo, Mew, and Psychic Arceus, for super effective damage. However, Ice Beam is generally the better option because of its higher Base Power and specific coverage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum investment in HP along with Recover is used to make Arceus as bulky as possible and hence bag more Calm Mind boosts. Fighting Arceus can run a Modest nature with maximum investment in Special Attack in order to comfortably 2HKO Wobbuffet with Dark Pulse, 2HKO Chansey and Blissey after Stealth Rock, and OHKO Extreme Killer Arceus after Stealth Rock 87% of the time.</p>

<p>Ho-Oh can counter Fighting Arceus very well. Armed with base 106 HP and titanic base 154 Special Defense, it resists Judgment and laughs at Ice Beam. Ho-Oh is also one the few Uber Pokemon who has access to a STAB Flying-type move: Brave Bird, which after a Life Orb boost can OHKO Fighting Arceus. However, Ho-Oh pays dearly for its typing, as it will lose 50% of its health every time it switches in if Stealth Rock is on the field. Shaymin-S is another one of the few Pokemon used in Ubers that has access to a Flying-type STAB move. It also outspeeds Arceus and can 2HKO an unboosted Fighting Arceus with Air Slash. Due to Air Slash's high flinch rate, which is further enhanced by Serene Grace, Arceus will often not even be able to make a move before getting taken out. Even so, Shaymin-S has to be wary of Ice Beam. Finally, offensive Mewtwo's Psystrike will always OHKO Fighting Arceus. Therefore, powerful Choice Scarf Pokemon such as Terrakion and Kyogre make good partners to Fighting Arceus. Terrakion can easily check Ho-Oh and Shaymin-S with its STAB Stone Edge. However, Shaymin-S is rather annoying to deal with due to Seed Flare and Air Slash's flinch chance. Because of this, Lugia can act as a good partner to Fighting Arceus thanks to its immense bulk, access to Reflect, and Pressure to eventually stall Ho-Oh out of Sacred Fire PP. Lugia can also Whirlwind away Substitutes set up by Shaymin-S and blast it with a 4x super effective Ice Beam.</p>

<p>Pokemon such as Forretress, Deoxys-S, and Ferrothorn can all set up entry hazards reliably and are good partners to Fighting Arceus. Stealth Rock is especially helpful for Fighting Arceus as it strips Ho-Oh of 50% of its health every time it switches in. In addition to resisting Stealth Rock itself, Fighting Arceus boasts resistances to common attacking types in Ubers, namely, Rock, Bug, and Dark. This makes Fighting Arceus an excellent check to Pokemon such as Tyranitar, Choice Scarf Terrakion, and Rock Arceus. Fighting Arceus resists both of Tyranitar's STABs and can OHKO it with Judgment. Similarly, Terrakion is smashed to pieces by Judgment, while Rock Arceus loses due to its natural type disadvantage. It must be noted that Fighting Arceus is a good partner to Ho-Oh as it checks the Rock-types Ho-Oh hates.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility Counter
move 1: Toxic
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Recover
item: Fist Plate
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 84 Def / 4 SpA / 168 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Fighting Arceus is an excellent Calm Mind sweeper, but it is equally adept at taking on a more supportive role. Arceus has a great support movepool, boasting access to moves such as Recover, Will-O-Wisp, and Stealth Rock. Fighting Arceus's great bulk, excellent 120 / 120 / 120 defenses, and lack of common weaknesses all help it in its role. Judgment has good neutral coverage in the Uber tier and does respectable damage even when unboosted thanks to Arceus's great base 120 Special Attack stat and STAB. Ice Beam has great coverage and is especially useful for taking out the ubiquitous Dragon-types in Ubers, most notably Rayquaza, which Fighting Arceus is an excellent check to. With Recover, Arceus can heal up during battle, increasing its overall longevity.</p>

<p>Toxic is the primary status move, and is chosen over Will-O-Wisp due to its ability to cripple Fighting Arceus's four greatest checks: Ho-Oh, Mewtwo, Latias, and Lugia. Will-O-Wisp also provides less general utility, as the only semi-common Steel-type that can switch into Fighting Arceus is Jirachi; physical attackers and support Pokemon such as Dialga and Ferrothorn can be smacked with a super effective STAB Judgment instead of relying on residual damage from Will-O-Wisp.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Perish Song lets Arceus beat late-game sweepers such as Calm Mind Kyogre and Refresh Calm Mind Arceus. Roar can also be used to phaze out other Pokemon trying to set up on Arceus; it is best when used in tandem with entry hazards as it allows Fighting Arceus to rack up entry hazard damage on its foes. Finally, Arceus can set up Reflect to support the team if needed.</p>

<p>The EVs are tailored to deal with specific Pokemon; a Bold nature and the Defense EVs means that a +1 Adamant Outrage from Life Orb Rayquaza will not OHKO, even after Stealth Rock. Even a Life Orb Adamant +2 ExtremeSpeed from Extreme Killer Normal Arceus only has a minuscule chance to OHKO this set after Stealth Rock and three layers of Spikes. 4 Special Attack EVs ensure that Ice Beam will OHKO Rayquaza, even without Stealth Rock. 168 Speed EVs allow Arceus to outspeed all unboosted Rayquaza, allowing it to switch into those that use Outrage off the bat and retaliate with Ice Beam before getting 2HKOed.</p>

<p>This set has massive issues with Ho-Oh, Mewtwo, and Latias, but it actually does better against them than the Calm Mind set, thanks to Toxic. Ho-Oh laughs at all of Fighting Arceus's attacks and OHKOes with Brave Bird, while Mewtwo resists Fighting Arceus's STAB and can put it down with Psystrike. Latias with Psyshock will also wreck Fighting Arceus. Shaymin-S can 2HKO Arceus with Air Slash, which means that Fighting Arceus will lose if it gets flinched. Choice Scarf Zekrom can reliably revenge kill Ho-Oh, Mewtwo, Latias, and Shaymin-S, in addition to being one of the few Pokemon to be able to threaten Multiscale Lugia. Heatran is a good partner, as it laughs at StallTwo and walls Ho-Oh lacking Earthquake. Choice Scarf Heatran can revenge kill offensive Mewtwo in the sun with Overheat, and switch into Shaymin-S's Seed Flare. A physically bulky Kyogre can switch into non-Life Orb Ho-Oh, as Brave Bird will take less than 50% of its HP; furthermore, changing the weather lets Pokemon such as Dialga handle Ho-Oh much easier. Wobbuffet walls Mewtwo without sun-boosted Fire Blast or Shadow Ball, and can stall out Pokemon that Fighting Arceus has afflicted with Toxic. Lugia and Giratina wall Ho-Oh quite well and can stall it with Toxic or phaze it out. Lugia also resists Psychic-type attacks, while Giratina is a terrific spinblocker.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>A Swords Dance set can be used with Brick Break, Shadow Force, and Recover as the remaining moves; Earthquake can also be run for its great neutral coverage. However, such a set is better done by Normal Arceus. Fighting Arceus can also use Cosmic Power to boost its defenses. Arceus has a huge support movepool and has no dearth of options; unfortunately, it often finds itself outclassed at many of them. For example, Arceus can set up dual screens, but is outclassed by Lugia at this job.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ho-Oh is a great counter to Fighting Arceus thanks to its huge Special Defense and HP, as well as its useful typing: it resists Judgment and takes little damage from Ice Beam and Dark Pulse. Ho-Oh also gets Brave Bird to OHKO Fighting Arceus, and even has access to Recover or Roost to heal off any recoil damage taken. Soul Dew Latias can win the Calm Mind war thanks to the additional boost from her item and access to Psyshock, which not only bypasses Arceus's boosts, it also hits for super effective damage. Ho-Oh's legendary companion, Lugia, walls Arceus quite nicely too; it easily shrugs off Fighting Arceus's attacks, can set up Light Screen to further reduce the damage it takes, and proceed to stall out Arceus with a combination of Toxic and Roost. If Arceus tries to set up, Lugia can just blow it away with Whirlwind. If Fighting Arceus forgoes Dark Pulse for its coverage move, Wobbuffet becomes a massive pain as it can Encore Fighting Arceus into Calm Mind or Recover.</p>

<p>Mewtwo can outspeed Fighting Arceus; offensive variants can OHKO with Psystrike, while defensive ones can use Taunt to prevent Arceus from using Recover or setting up. Mewtwo also resists Judgment, and an unboosted Dark Pulse will only 2HKO. Shaymin-S is resistant to Judgment and can 2HKO Fighting Arceus with a speedy Air Slash, but if Fighting Arceus is lucky enough not to flinch, an Ice Beam will have Shaymin-S crying. Psychic Arceus is a good counter to Fighting Arceus; both can Calm Mind up, but the war will be won by Psychic Arceus thanks to its type advantage and access to Psyshock. Calm Mind Kyogre can defeat Fighting Arceus with its strong STAB moves and high Special bulk. Reshiram can come in on a Will-O-Wisp from the support set and 2HKO Arceus with Blue Flare. Jirachi is not OHKOed by any attack and can cripple Fighting Arceus with Thunder Wave and then take it out with Zen Headbutt or repeated Iron Heads.</p>