[Overview]

<p>Hark the hallowed voices that cry from The Original One as He descends from the heavenly Hall of Origin in a manner as holy as His Sky Plate. Soaring above the Spikes and Toxic Spikes bound to mortal lands below, Arceus pronounces His Judgment to be heard from the heavens. The Uber tier stands silent before Him, for none are immune and few are resistant to His STAB Flying-type attacks. Although His creations Ho-Oh, Tornadus-T, and Shaymin-S have either dual STABs and advantageous abilities, or both, with which to contest for the offensive supremacy of the sky, only He can viably use Calm Mind to reach heights beyond the limits of which can be seen. Yet, even Flying Arceus can fall from the heavens. A weakness to Stealth Rock proves a great obstacle for His overall well-being, and though He resists Bug-, Grass-, and Fighting-type attacks and heeds to no Ground-type attack, without the purity that lies within a Calm Mind, the saintly Arceus plummets like a falling star in face of common Electric-, Ice-, and Rock-type attacks. Cry not in despair, for when the time comes for the heavens to finally open, His Judgment shall come as swiftly as the tempest of a thousand gales.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Recover
move 4: Substitute / Focus Blast
item: Sky Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 96 HP / 160 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Like many Arceus formes, Flying Arceus's best and only viable set is one that utilizes Calm Mind. This does not mean, however, that Flying Arceus is mediocre. While Flying Arceus has a rather ordinary defensive typing, Flying-type is an extremely solid attacking STAB. This, coupled with an immunity to Spikes and Toxic Spikes, allows Him to use a very effective mono-attacking set, checkmating many stall teams that lack a powerful attacker to take Him down. Calm Mind, Judgment, and Recover are absolutely mandatory for a Calm Mind Arceus set, and this one is no exception. The last slot can be more variable. The ideal move is Substitute, as it allows Arceus to singlehandedly destroy stall teams. However, Focus Blast can be used for a more offensive approach, hitting most Pokemon that resist Judgment for neutral or super effective damage, and is especially useful for Dialga and Tyranitar.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Since Arceus has a very large movepool, He can run a multitude of different moves in the last slot. Fire Blast can be used to fry Jirachi and Bronzong in the sun, both of which would be troublesome Pokemon to Flying Arceus. Earth Power can be used to hit Jirachi out of the sun, as well as Zekrom and Heatran. Will-O-Wisp can cripple Zekrom switch-ins, but it still doesn't really allow Arceus to defeat Zekrom. Another option is to not even run Recover and run Calm Mind + 3 attacks, but Flying Arceus isn't nearly as good as an all-out sweeper as He is a slow booster. Refresh is an interesting move, as other stallbreaking Arceus formes use it. However, since Flying Arceus is immune to Toxic Spikes, He generally does not need Refresh to cure Himself of status conditions, since He will not get any as long as you play Him properly. On the other hand, Substitute protects Arceus from Leech Seed, Dark Void, paralysis, and critical hits, which are far more useful than what Refresh offers.</p>

<p>The HP EVs give Flying Arceus 405 HP, which allows Him to make 101 HP Substitutes, while still allowing Him to switch into Stealth Rock more than four times. Max Speed makes Arceus as fast as possible, while the rest go into offenses. Another way to EV Flying Arceus is to give Him max HP and max Speed like most other Calm Mind Arceus formes. Be aware that if you decide to go down that route, you lose a guaranteed 2HKO on Eviolite Chansey at +6, which means you could potentially be stalled out, even if you land a critical hit, if Chansey continues to spam Softboiled. A fully offensive spread with max Special Attack and Speed is also an option if you forgo Substitute.</p>

<p>Electric, Rock, and Steel Arceus tend to counter Flying Arceus very well. Bronzong, Jirachi, and Metagross only need to watch out for sun-boosted Fire Blasts, or in the latter two's case, Earth Power. Zekrom resists Judgment and OHKOes Arceus with Bolt Strike, fearing only Earth Power. The Thundurus formes resist both Judgment and Focus Blast and do huge damage with Thunder. Excadrill is an excellent teammate to take on all of the above&mdash;it not only synergizes well with Flying Arceus, but it can also spin away Stealth Rock, which is a pain for Arceus to deal with. Other Ground-types such as Garchomp, Landorus-T, and Groudon are also good, although they will need to watch out for boosted Ice-type moves. Other Rapid Spin users that Arceus can appreciate include Kabutops, Tentacruel, and Forretress. If Kyurem-W is healthy, it can tank a Judgment and OHKO with Choice Specs Ice Beam and Latias also gives Flying Arceus troubles. Specially defensive Kyogre is a good Pokemon to deal with Kyurem-W, and Jirachi and Bronzong can deal with both Kyurem-W and Latias. If you're using a sun team, then Ho-Oh and Heatran are also relatively good switch-ins to both dragons.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Flying Arceus can run a fun little Swords Dance set with Fly, Earthquake, and ExtremeSpeed or Recover. However, since Fly is a multi-turn attack, it makes Swords Dance Flying Arceus extremely easy to play around. Flying Arceus can also run a support set for a Ground-immune Pokemon, but on the flip side, He is weak to Stealth Rock and doesn't really have the best defensive typing. Lugia also outclasses Flying Arceus in most ways in a defensive role.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Choice Scarf Zekrom is probably the most practical counter to Flying Arceus. It can switch into pretty much any attack, even an Earth Power, and OHKO with Bolt Strike. Rock Arceus in the sand is probably the next best thing. With titanic Special Defense, it can easily tank Focus Blast and Calm Mind alongside Flying Arceus. Steel and Electric Arceus check Flying Arceus, but both can be defeated if Flying Arceus wins the Speed ties and hits them both with Focus Blast or Earth Power, respectively. Calm Mind Latias is generally a very solid counter to Flying Arceus unless she is low on health. Her massive Special Defense allows her to Calm Mind up alongside Arceus and defeat Him with with Psyshock or Thunder. Specially defensive Kyogre can also Calm Mind alongside Flying Arceus and pressure Him with rain-boosted Water-type moves and Scald burns. Choice Specs Kyogre also tends to be something Flying Arceus finds difficult to handle one-on-one. Jirachi, Metagross, and Bronzong resist Judgment, but the former two must watch out for Earth Power, while all three need to watch out for Fire Blast in the sun. If Arceus is not running Focus Blast, Tyranitar laughs at Him. Magnezone 4x resists Flying-type moves and hits Arceus hard with Thunder, but will need to watch out for Focus Blast or Earth Power. If Stealth Rock is not up, Ho-Oh can deal massive damage with either Brave Bird or sun-boosted Sacred Fire. The Thundurus formes resist most attacks Flying Arceus uses apart from sun-boosted Fire Blast and deal huge amounts of damage with Thunder, or even Thunderbolt. If Flying Arceus lacks Substitute, Thundurus can also paralyze Him with Thunder Wave.</p>

<p>Heatran can Roar Arceus out or use Toxic on it, although it cannot defeat last Pokemon Flying Arceus with Substitute, or Arceus with Earth Power or Focus Blast. Like Heatran, Skarmory can force Flying Arceus out with Whirlwind or inflict Toxic on it, but loses to variants carrying Fire Blast, or if He is a last Pokemon with Substitute. Lugia and the Giratina formes can take a boosted Judgment and force Arceus out if they are healthy, but will also lose if Arceus is the last Pokemon and has Substitute. Choice Scarf Kyurem-B can revenge kill a weakened Flying Arceus with Fusion Bolt. Kabutops and Omastar need rain to outspeed Flying Arceus and need to watch out for Earth Power or Focus Blast, but Kabutops can revenge kill with Stone Edge, and Omastar can deal lots of damage with Hydro Pump. Beartic is another Swift Swimmer that troubles Arceus, as it can OHKO Flying Arceus after Stealth Rock damage, and Encore Arceus into Calm Mind and set up Swords Dance in His face. If sandstorm is up, Excadrill can defeat Flying Arceus one-on-one if He lacks Focus Blast or Earth Power. Finally, Choice Scarf Terrakion can also revenge kill Flying Arceus with Stone Edge.</p>