[Overview]

<p>The creator of everything that is Pokemon returns, fueled with crackling divine rage. In this form, Arceus wields the devastating power of lightning, which it has used for countless centuries to bring savage ruin and heavenly punishment upon those who oppose it. The jaw-dropping power of its electric lances combined with its icy beams will numb the fighting spirit of any creature of the earth foolish enough to attempt to stand up to the wrath of Arceus. Even the mighty titans Ho-Oh and Kyogre slink away from Arceus in his electrical guise, lest they be utterly and completely wiped from existence with a storm of powerful bolts. It is most unwise to obstruct the path of the voltaic one, or else the wicked streak of a lightning bolt will be the last thing you shall ever see.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Thunderbolt / Thunder
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Recover / Substitute
item: Zap Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Arceus's pure Electric typing isn't so useful defensively, it is monstrous offensively, and Electric-type STAB is quite potent against many Uber Pokemon such as Lugia, Kyogre, and Ho-Oh. When combined with great Speed, bulk, power, and general lack of weaknesses courtesy of its typing, Electric Arceus has the potential to become a true terror on the battlefield.</p>

<p>Calm Mind is the crux of the set. After just one or two boosts, Electric Arceus will become both overwhelmingly powerful and incredibly sturdy specially. Thunderbolt is the main attack for its consistent power and accuracy; it OHKOes most neutral targets after a boost or two. However, in addition to having a greater chance of paralysis, Thunder is significantly more powerful, and at +1 always OHKOes 4 HP Palkia after Stealth Rock damage. Nonetheless, Thunderbolt's consistent accuracy in all weather makes it a much more useful option. This is true especially if Electric Arceus is being used on a sun team, where it has nice utilities, such as checking Kyogre and resisting Flying-type attacks from the likes of Ho-Oh and Shaymin-S. Ice Beam eliminates Ground-type Pokemon such as Garchomp and offensive Groudon, as well as other Pokemon that resist Electric-type attacks, such as Zekrom, forming the famous BoltBeam attacking combination. Recover is the preferred option in the fourth slot to assist Arceus in setting up more Calm Minds and negating damage from entry hazards, but Substitute offers protection from status and the ability to beat Blissey.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given set of EVs help to maximize Electric Arceus's ability to sweep by optimizing its Speed and Special Attack. However, a bulkier spread of 252 HP / 4 SpA / 252 Spe can also be considered. Due to the fact Electric Arceus only has one weakness, it can make good use of its bulk to potentially set up even more Calm Mind boosts. This defensive investment would also allow Arceus to make Substitutes that Blissey cannot break with a single Seismic Toss, leaving the pink blob little more than setup fodder. If one desires greater type coverage, Fire Blast and Focus Blast can be used over Recover. Both options completely wreck Ferrothorn, who otherwise gives this set a hard time with Leech Seed, and hurt Dialga a lot more than Ice Beam does. However, without Recover, Electric Arceus's survivability will be drastically reduced due to its lack of useful resistances. One can also run either attack over Ice Beam, but that leaves Arceus walled by Zekrom, Garchomp, and the Giratina formes.</p>

<p>Ground Arceus and defensive variants of Groudon are major issues for Electric Arceus. Both these threats are immune to its STAB, are bulky enough to take an Ice Beam, and can drop it with one Earthquake. Reshiram resists Electric-type attacks, shrugs off Ice Beam, and will roast Arceus to a crisp with its powerful sun-boosted Blue Flare. Blissey and Tyranitar are special walls that can handle Arceus's hits all day and can either subdue it with Toxic or simply annihilate it entirely with Earthquake, respectively. Choice Scarf Garchomp is also capable of outspeeding Arceus and crushing it with Earthquake before it can use Ice Beam. Mixed Rayquaza is therefore a terrific teammate for Electric Arceus. Aside from being immune to Electric Arceus's only weakness, mixed Rayquaza can lure out Electric Arceus's most common adversary, Groudon, and piledrive it into the ground with a surprise Draco Meteor, leaving Electric Arceus free to rampage. Kyogre can summon an infinite rainstorm that will slice the power of Reshiram's Blue Flare into unusable bits, hence preventing it from defeating Arceus. Groudon's high Attack and Defense make it a good and reliable answer to Garchomp, Blissey, and Tyranitar. Physical variants of Ground Arceus can be handled by Groudon and special variants by Kyogre; finally, Shaymin-S is faster than Ground Arceus and can put it down with Seed Flare.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Judgment is slightly more powerful than Thunderbolt, but it has less PP and lacks the useful paralysis chance that Thunderbolt possesses. After a Calm Mind boost, Grass Knot will score an easy OHKO on Groudon, and it gets a stronger hit on Ground Arceus, but Ice Beam retains coverage on Garchomp and Zekrom, and is therefore preferred. Fire Blast and Focus Blast are other attacks Arceus can use over Recover or Substitute—the former wrecks Ferrothorn and is incredibly powerful in the sunlight, and the latter is less accurate, but still covers Ferrothorn while also mangling Tyranitar. A boosted Earth Power allows Electric Arceus to wreck Reshiram and Magnezone while retaining coverage on Zekrom and badly injuring Tyranitar, but Earth Power is generally less useful than the other attacks Electric Arceus can run.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Electric Arceus is very difficult to halt due to its excellent combination of Speed, power, and type coverage, but there are still some foes it will have a lot of trouble getting past without help. Blissey and Chansey are probably Electric Arceus's worst enemies, as Electric Arceus's attacks will bounce right off the vast rolls of pink, lumpy fat while they can whittle it down with Toxic. However, both blobs will lose to Electric Arceus that carry Substitute to block Toxic. Groudon and Ground Arceus can both take a boosted Ice Beam—although it will do a lot of damage—and KO Electric Arceus with Earthquake. Choice Scarf Garchomp can switch in on any of Electric Arceus's attacks bar Ice Beam and smash it with Earthquake. Bulky Excadrill is in a similar situation, but it has the potential to outspeed Electric Arceus in the sand while not being too bothered by Ice Beam. Reshiram laughs off most of Electric Arceus's attacks and can incinerate it with Blue Flare through its Calm Mind boosts, thanks to Blue Flare's sheer power under sunlight. Tyranitar doesn't care about any of Electric Arceus's moves and can obliterate it with a mighty Earthquake. Finally, Toxic Spikes can more often than not stop Arceus from sweeping.</p>