[Overview]

<p>You better "be sharp" when you face Bisharp! Its unique typing gives it a mixed blessing; it has a few cringe-inducing weaknesses such as Fighting, Fire, and Ground. Despite this, it also boasts a total of nine resistances and immunity to Poison and Psychic. What makes this power ranger scary to face against is the fact that it boasts Sucker Punch. It's definitely a mixed bag as it fails on fast priority Pokemon and when the opponent just wants to be a good guy and not attack a foe to stoop down to Bisharp's level. Like every bad guy, it's a little slow and doesn’t like to take a lot of combat; especially when either things heat up, plans go straight to the ground, or gets into too many fights. It has a lot of perks over Extreme Killer Arceus thanks to its noted resistances including Stealth Rock, immunity to Toxic Spikes, and handling Lugia and Giratina a lot better. Go underestimating Bisharp, and you never know when you’ll be ambushed by it!</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Low Kick
move 4: Night Slash / Stone Edge
item: Life Orb / Lum Berry
ability: Defiant / Inner Focus
nature: Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Everybody loves Power Rangers, but no one likes a dirty fighter. Bisharp combines both of these awesome aspects and gets a moveset that looks like this. Bisharp works best coming in on the revenge; preferably on a Pokemon locked into Outrage. Set up Swords Dance, and watch your opponent tremble in fear! Ambush them when they least expect it with a swift Sucker Punch. Groudon thinks it’s all big and bad? Watch it drop its jaw when it takes about 75% after a +2 Sucker Punch. For Forretress and Ferrothorn, simply use Swords Dance and follow up with Low Kick. Of course, the biggest issue is mind games. Hence, why Night Slash is placed as a fourth option. Giratina takes 80.3% - 94.6% from +2 Night Slash; even Lugia has to be running a Bold nature or it gets destroyed by +2 Night Slash. Stone Edge can at least prevent a stray Ho-Oh switch-in. Defiant helps Bisharp get past Landorus-T and even profit from his Intimidate. Inner Focus is also a worthwhile ability as it can help Bisharp set up on Choice Scarf Shaymin-S locked onto Air Slash and prevents Jirachi from flinching through Bisharp with Serene Grace Iron Head.</p>

<p>Lum Berry is an interesting item for Bisharp to consider. It prevents Bisharp from being hit by Will-O-Wisp and makes taking Giratina and defensive Arceus formes on a little less challenging. Bisharp just has to be very careful due to the power drop being a bit more noticeable. For example, +2 Sucker Punch can fail to OHKO Garchomp (81.3% - 95.8%). In other words, Bisharp looks very frightening to offensive teams that slap a wall here and there to stop common checks. Maximum HP can be used with the set instead of maximum Speed. While you sacrifice beating Giratina (and some Giratina-O), the bulkier spread does allow Bisharp to take hits more easily. Be aware that you risk losing to Bulk Up Dialga even more as Dialga will be faster than Bisharp and can 2HKO after it has used Bulk Up twice. Payback can replace Night Slash because it inflicts more damage when Bisharp is slower, but you put yourself at greater risk of losing to Wobbuffet.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Of course, there are some minor flaws to that plan. First off, Bold Lugia can hold the fort against Bisharp and wear it out. Reflect suddenly becomes more effective with the Defense buff and Lugia can afford a safe Whirlwind or switch-out in the process. Lugia shouldn't attempt to tank Bisharp under Reflect as it likely lacks an attack to dent Bisharp, and a critical hit seals Lugia’s fate. Dialga resists Sucker Punch pretty well, though offensive variants taking over 50% is a hard feat to beat. Bisharp can struggle very hard against a well-built stall team. It can at least put a dent here and there, but a full health stall team prevents Bisharp from getting far into the match.</p>

<p>Mewtwo is a good partner overall for Bisharp because offensive Mewtwo smashes through stall a lot better than Bisharp. Kyogre, primarily fast variants, can help ease Ho-Oh woe for Bisharp. Palkia can threaten Groudon most of the time while keeping Ho-Oh's Sacred Fire at check. Just be aware that Choice Scarf Palkia hates stall. Palkia is great for drawing in Choice Dragon-type moves, which means Bisharp sets up on them. Wobbuffet is a cool partner thanks to Shadow Tag forcing the opponent to stay in. It can take out Choice Scarf Dialga or use Encore to give way to Bisharp switching in and setting up a free Swords Dance. Giratina-O helps alleviate the pain of facing Choice Scarf Terrakion and easily takes Bisharp's weaknesses thanks to being immune to two of them. Bisharp also resists everything thrown at Giratina-O, so they work well hand in hand. </p>

<p>You can try slowing down some of Bisharp's more crippling issues with Prankster Thundurus. While it seems like an odd combo, it makes beating Dialga a bit more bearable because +2 Low Kick OHKOes offensive Dialga. Thundurus can use STAB Thunder to scare any Pokemon from switching into it while shutting down Kyogre and Lugia. Grass Knot can put a trip on Groudon too. Focus Blast also keeps Dialga from switching into Thunder constantly. Groudon can make it as a teammate, though keep in mind it's the supportive ones Bisharp is looking for. Lugia can set up Reflect for Bisharp while putting Groudon to a halt while having access to Thunder Wave to prevent faster Dialga from ruining Bisharp's sweep. For an added bonus, Lugia draws in many attacks that Bisharp resists (barring Thunder). Choice Scarf Heracross and Choice Scarf Terrakion are solid as they wreck Darkrai and Dialga with their awesome STABs.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There isn't much to add here. It learns a lot of other moves, but it is either outclassed of the role in the Uber tier or is just a niche. Bisharp is too fragile for a Stealth Rock support set. Mean Look can trap a Pokemon, but Bisharp already suffers from four-moveslot syndrome. Rock Polish isn't a good option with Bisharp's attacks having low Base Powers. It also needs Jolly to outspeed Choice Scarf Garchomp. Low Sweep has a niche; it 2HKOes offensive Dialga safely. Choice Band can be considered, but a lock onto Sucker Punch can be deadly on setup sweepers such as Swords Dance Rayquaza. On the bright side, Bisharp can be used as a revenge killer. There's also Pursuit, which can prevent Ghost-types from switching out freely from Bisharp.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Aside from Sucker Punch being a double-edged sword (which is funny because Bisharp is the Sword Blade Pokemon!), Groudon puts a major stop to Bisharp most of the time. Groudon is durable enough to take +2 Sucker Punch while immediately shutting down Bisharp with STAB Earthquake. Steel Arceus might not have any blades, but it can Will-O-Wisp Bisharp. Thankfully, Steel Arceus suffers from four-moveslot syndrome. This means it has to take a gamble between Roar and Will-O-Wisp. If Steel Arceus carries Roar, Bisharp isn't as threatened by Steel Arceus. On the other hand, Fighting Arceus completely shuts down Bisharp. Don't even think of picking a fight with it! Ho-Oh was mentioned here and there, and while it's OHKOed by +2 Sucker Punch (especially after Stealth Rock), Substitute can be an annoyance to Bisharp because Sucker Punch gives Ho-Oh a free Substitute. Regenerator makes the situation worse as it ensures Ho-Oh remains a lasting threat. Dialga was often mentioned; while Bisharp has some ways of bypassing Dialga with Low Kick almost OHKOing offensive variants, faster Fire Blast and Aura Sphere remain an issue. Lugia can be annoying to Bisharp if Stealth Rock isn't on the field. While Lugia has to gamble with a 12.5% chance of suffering a critical hit, it can stall Bisharp out with Reflect + Roost.</p>

<p>Darkrai can be used for an emergency stop to Bisharp. Dark Void doesn't trigger Sucker Punch, while Darkrai can obtain a free Nasty Plot most of the time. Support Mewtwo can be a real pain for the set as it's not expected often. Mewtwo can bypass a Sucker Punch thanks to Will-O-Wisp and then switch to a Pokemon that can take either a weakened Sucker Punch or Brick Break. Terrakion is not only a Musketeer, but it can switch into Bisharp and survive a +2 Sucker Punch. Thanks to Justified, Terrakion even gets a free Attack boost out of it to purge the world of Bisharp's evil deeds. Ferrothorn's Iron Barbs are no match for Bisharp's sword, with the exception that it adds extra recoil. Bulldoze and Leech Seed can make the situation very annoying as well. Skarmory can at least prevent Bisharp from getting very far. Their blades are evenly matched, so Skarmory is rather forced to use Whirlwind or Bisharp will just use Swords Dance again to assure the 2HKO. Just be aware that bulky Kyogre can temporarily halt Bisharp's sweep thanks to Surf hitting Bisharp hard while Sucker Punch fails to work on attacks such as Calm Mind. If opting for Inner Focus, Landorus-T becomes an issue much like Groudon.</p>