[Overview]

<p>Though this generation brought nothing new to Bronzong, it remains a very reliable supporter in Ubers. It has resistances to the common Dragon-, Ice-, and Ground-type moves seen in the tier. Bronzong has only one weakness, but thanks to the popularity of Kyogre, even that weakness can be remedied. Bronzong's unique typing and ability thus set it apart from other Steel-types seen in Ubers. Wish users such as Chansey also make up for its lack of recovery moves. Overall, whether it is setting up dual screens or just plain walling threats, these qualities all make Bronzong a great support Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock / Toxic
move 2: Gyro Ball / Earthquake
move 3: Light Screen
move 4: Reflect 
item: Leftovers / Light Clay
ability: Levitate
nature: Sassy 
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>There are generally only three  commonly used Steel-types in the Uber tier: Ferrothorn, Jirachi, and Steel Arceus. Dialga is neutral to Dragon-type attacks, so it is left out in the list. Bronzong has an Earthquake immunity thanks to Levitate, which allows it to completely wall many threats that the other Steel-types can only dream of achieving. It also makes an excellent user of Stealth Rock, which greatly limits the life span of offensive behemoths, such as Ho-Oh, Rayquaza, and Shaymin-S. Bronzong completely walls Shaymin-S, and and is capable of walling Rayquaza if the dragon decides to drop a Fire-type attack.</p>

<p>Toxic can be used to take out bulky Pokemon such as Lugia and Ground Arceus who can't touch Bronzong in return. Keep in mind that Bronzong needs Toxic to bring down bulky sweepers such as Calm Mind Recover Arceus and Groudon. Gyro Ball is Bronzong's most powerful attack and is thus the preferred attacking option. Due to Bronzong's low Speed, Gyro Ball can 2HKO Mewtwo and Darkrai after Stealth Rock damage. However, if you really hate Heatran, or want to at least prevent Dialga from coming in for free, Earthquake can be used instead. It also wrecks the occasional Magnezone coming in to trap and eliminate Bronzong. Momentum is a very important thing to have in Ubers, and Bronzong can keep a team's momentum by setting up dual screens, which also soften the blows Bronzong has to swallow. For example, with Reflect, Bronzong can easily wall Extreme Killer Arceus, and Light Screen gives Bronzong a chance to survive a Blue Flare from Choice Scarf Reshiram in the sun!</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Leftovers is the standard item on defensive Pokemon. However, Light Clay can be used to prolong the effects of the dual screens, which will help most offensive teams. The EV spread and Sassy nature maximize Bronzong's special bulk, helping it deal with the special attacks which are ubiquitous in Ubers. However, a physically defensive EV spread and a Relaxed nature can be used to deal with most Swords Dance Arceus formes, as well as any Groudon and Rayquaza lacking a Fire-type move. Trick Room can also be used on this set over a screen move.</p>

<p>Wish support from the likes of Chansey or Blissey is very useful due to Bronzong's lack of a reliable instant recovery move. With Wish support, Bronzong can stay alive much longer and take repeated hits. Bronzong is very vulnerable to Trick users, so Giratina-O makes a great partner because it is immune to the move. Kyogre is a staple on rain teams, where Bronzong generally find its home in. The two have excellent defensive synergy as well; Bronzong resists Grass-type attacks and checks Grass Arceus for Kyogre, while Kyogre drowns any Fire-type and brings torrential rain to the field. Ho-Oh might be a decent partner for Bronzong as it absorbs Fire-type attacks easily, but Bronzong prefers to play in the rain. Palkia makes a good teammate as well because it resists Fire-type attacks, while Bronzong in return soaks up Dragon-type assaults and provides dual screen support. Tentacruel can survive Fire-type attacks easily and provide Toxic Spikes support. Bronzong helps take out Ground Arceus and Groudon for it, making it a good teammate as well.</p>

<p>Bronzong's aforementioned resistances give it plenty of opportunities to come in and set up dual screens. It can brave Earthquake, Ice Beam, Dragon Pulse, Draco Meteor, and even Seed Flare with little worry and use that time to set up both screens. With dual screen support, frail sweepers such as Rayquaza and Lucario can clean late-game easily. For example, Rayquaza can survive a Spacial Rend from Palkia, set up Swords Dance, and KO Palkia the next turn, a feat it normally cannot achieve. If Reflect is up, Lucario can actually survive an Earthquake from Groudon, nearly KOing back if it has two Swords Dance boosts under its belt. Groudon is also a decent candidate to make use of screens support too, as even Choice Specs Kyogre's Ice Beam will fail to OHKO Groudon with Light Screen support, while a +2 Earthquake will OHKO any Kyogre variant.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Gyro Ball 
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Stealth Rock / Explosion 
item: Life Orb 
ability: Levitate
nature: Brave 
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Just like in OU, Bronzong is one of the most reliable users of Trick Room. Gyro Ball is standard fare, as it provides STAB coverage and can nearly OHKO Darkrai or Mewtwo. Other speedy Pokemon in Ubers are easily eliminated by Bronzong. Explosion can still be used to tear holes in the opponent's team despite the nerf, also allowing a Trick Room sweeper to switch in for free. However, if you don't have a Stealth Rock user, Bronzong itself can run Stealth Rock over Explosion.  Earthquake can 2HKO Dialga and finishes Heatran in one hit.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Using Life Orb gives Bronzong some decent firepower. Unlike a normal support set, this Bronzong aims for a more offensive approach and as such, having dedicated Trick Room sweepers are a key to Bronzong's success. While most Ubers are bulky, Bronzong has that auspicious typing and isn't vulnerable to hazards at all which allows it to set up Trick Room easily. Trick Room sweepers such as Victini, Dialga, Kyogre, and Reshiram will appreciate Bronzong's support, as Bronzong can even give them a free switch in through Explosion. Stallbreakers such as Rayquaza and Zekrom are very useful, because defensive teams are the bane of Trick Room teams. The latter also smashes Kyogre to bits, making it a good teammate. If you really hate Ho-Oh, Rock Slide can be used to OHKO the rainbow turkey. Dialga and Palkia make awesome partners not only because of their sheer power, but also because they are the main users of Trick Room in Ubers. Palkia also boasts a 4x resistance to Fire-type attacks, which is Bronzong's only weakness. Dialga can lure in and smash Blissey with Outrage, paving the way for special attackers to sweep under Trick Room.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Bronzong can use a Calm Mind set with Flash Cannon or Psyshock but it's generally a waste of Bronzong's walling prowess. Grass Knot is Bronzong's strongest move against Groudon, but Groudon cannot touch Bronzong outside of Fire Punch anyway. Kyogre takes little damage from Grass Knot due to its mammoth Special Defense so Grass Knot isn't worth using over Bronzong's standard attacks. Rest can be used for recovery, but it is unreliable especially with the new sleep mechanics. Rock Slide can 2HKO Ho-Oh but does nothing else. Hypnosis is extremely unreliable, so it isn't recommended even when Bronzong can afford to miss a few times. Hidden Power Ice 2HKOes Rayquaza and Garchomp, but is useless otherwise. Payback is only useful for stopping Sub Calm Mind Giratina-O from setting up on Bronzong, and is generally a horrible option. Heatproof can be used to fool the opponent, but is generally a horrible option as it makes Bronzong vulnerable to Spikes and Earthquake. Macho Brace powers up Gyro Ball and can be used in conjunction with Trick to cripple sweepers.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ho-Oh is probably the best counter to Bronzong, as it fears nothing but the occasional Rock Slide or Toxic on the switch-in, and can easily set up a Substitute on poor Bronzong. Sacred Fire will not only burn Bronzong, but eliminate it. Kyogre sets up on Bronzong easily, and Choice Specs Water Spout is an OHKO. Steel Arceus, as well as Dark Arceus with Refresh, can set up on Bronzong for free, as they don't fear Toxic. Keep in mind that Bronzong might be able to set up dual screens on Steel Arceus though. Giratina laughs at whatever Bronzong has to offer and can burn it. Heatran walls Bronzong if it lacks Earthquake, KOing it with its STAB Fire-type attacks. Ferrothorn and Skarmory use Bronzong as setup bait. Reshiram hates Earthquake, but Choice Specs Blue Flare in the sun will OHKO Bronzong even through Light Screen. Manaphy gets to set up on Bronzong easily too, and has Hydration to heal status. However, keep in mind that most of the counters listed barring Giratina and the Steel-types hate taking an Explosion to the face.</p>