[Overview]

<p>Chansey, the famous pink blob's little cousin, possesses amazing bulk which allows her to be a very effective support Pokemon in Ubers. When equipped with an Eviolite, she achieves incredible bulk with 642 HP, 163 Defense, and 508 Special Defense, assuming a Calm nature. Greater defenses allow Chansey to avoid being 2HKOed by a number of attacks that Blissey would succumb to, including Choice Specs Kyogre's Water Spout, Dialga and Palkia's Outrage, and Latios's Psyshock. However, holding Eviolite comes at the expense of no Leftovers recovery, so keep that in mind when choosing between Chansey and Blissey. Chansey does share Blissey's fantastic support movepool though, including Wish, which allows her to replenish a massive 321 HP for a teammate.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Wish / Heal Bell
move 2: Softboiled
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Seismic Toss / Heal Bell / Snatch
item: Eviolite
ability: Natural Cure
nature: Calm / Bold
evs: 4 HP / 252 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Chansey's superb defenses thanks to Eviolite allow her to be an excellent wall, and a key player on any stall-inclined team. With her vast support movepool, she can pass enormous Wishes, cripple opponents, stall with Toxic, and remove status afflictions from the team with Heal Bell. Chansey can also remove any status dealt to herself by simply switching due to Natural Cure. This gives her incredible staying power and the ability to outstall opposing walls. Against such walls, she may then proceed to Toxic as the opponent is forced to switch, lest they face the slow spiral to death while beating futilely against Chansey's awesome bulk supported by Softboiled. Note that even with Toxic Spikes support, Toxic is still a great move to deal with Flying-types and Levitate users such as Lugia and Giratina-O.</p>

<p>The choice between Wish, Seismic Toss, and Heal Bell is dependent on how well Chansey's teammates can recover health and absorb status. Teams that are vulnerable to crippling statuses such as poison, paralysis, and burn appreciate Heal Bell, while teams that lack recovery moves benefit greatly from Wish. Snatch may also be used on Chansey as it allows her to take down mono-attacking Arceus (most notably Dark Arceus) by stealing Refreshes and Recovers; if the Arceus is poisoned, Chansey can repeatedly abuse Snatch to prevent Arceus from removing its status or recovering its HP. This also allows her to steal Calm Mind boosts to further increase Chansey's Special Defense. Should a team be comfortable forgoing Wish's recovery or Heal Bell's status removing support, Seismic Toss should be used for its value in breaking down poisoned enemies that abuse recovery moves, most notably Lugia.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>In order to use Chansey effectively, you must always seize opportunities to switch into special sweepers that cannot significantly damage her. Entry hazard support greatly aids Chansey in stalling out sweepers; therefore, Spikers such as Forretress, Ferrothorn, and Skarmory make great partners for Chansey. Do not be afraid to switch Chansey in to certain weaker physical attacks, either. Due to awesome bulk with Eviolite, she can survive harsh beatings provided that there are few entry hazards. Chansey should be confident in switching into the likes of Palkia, Dialga, Kyogre, Reshiram, defensive Groudon, Latias, Latios, and mixed attacking Giratina-O, forcing them to switch out in fear of Toxic. Likewise, Chansey can stall out opposing walls such as Lugia with Toxic or force a switch.</p>

<p>It should be noted that the inability to use Leftovers is a considerable loss when choosing Chansey over Blissey. While Chansey can take certain hits that Blissey cannot, Chansey is easily worn down by entry hazards and other forms of residual damage such as sandstorm, poison, and burn. It also takes away the opportunity to heal behind Protect. Additionally, Blissey can competently use special attacks such as Flamethrower and Ice Beam to take down certain threats, or even utilize them with Calm Mind, whereas Chansey's pathetic base 35 Special Attack is unusable.</p>

<p>As for teammates, Lugia can easily take powerful hits from physical sweepers, use Reflect, and Whirlwind them away. Ho-Oh can address any Calm Mind abusers looking to set up on Chansey by hitting them with a powerful STAB Scared Fire or Brave Bird. Giratina and Giratina-O are immune to any Fighting-type move thrown at Chansey, while she provides them with a Ghost immunity and the ability to sponge other powerful special attacks that they fear. Pokemon that lack recovery moves greatly appreciate Chansey's ability to pass Wish; examples range from sweepers such as Palkia and Zekrom to walls such as Groudon and Ferrothorn. Due to Chansey's massive HP, Wish recipients will recover 321 HP, often restoring them to full health.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>If your team lacks a Pokemon with Stealth Rock, Chansey may use it over Seismic Toss in order to support the team even further. Protect is still usable over Softboiled to secure Wish activation for Chansey herself. It can also be useful for scouting opponent's attacks, but its effectiveness is greatly hindered by the absence of Leftovers. Thunder Wave is an option for offensive teams to paralyze opposing Pokemon in preparation for a slower teammate to sweep. An EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD may be used if one wishes to pass more HP to teammates with Wish, or take physical hits better at the cost of less special bulk. Counter is another interesting option for Chansey; due to her higher physical bulk relative to Blissey, she can survive a number of physical hits from certain Pokemon and KO them with Counter. Using Counter requires a great deal of prediction, but makes it even more difficult for the opponent to take down Chansey. Light Screen is a useful move to support the team and ensures that pretty much no special attack will KO Chansey. Charm can be used in order weaken the opponent's physical attacks and allow Chansey to more effectively wall physical attacking Pokemon. Keep in mind that attack drops are removed by switching out so it is mainly effective only for phazing.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Many physical sweepers such as Zekrom, Terrakion, Ho-Oh, physical variants of Arceus, and Rayquaza can counter Chansey reasonably well due to her lower Defense; however, even they have to fear being poisoned by Toxic and stalled out. Pokemon that can safely ignore poison and use stat boosting moves such as Swords Dance, Bulk Up, Calm Mind, and Nasty Plot can give Chansey a lot of problems. This includes Steel, Flying, and Poison types of Arceus, Kyogre, and Dialga. Ghost-types and Pokemon with 404 HP or more can use Substitute to set up fearlessly against Chansey, as they are not bothered by Seismic Toss or Toxic. Extreme Killer Arceus can simply set up on Chansey with Swords Dance, taking only relatively minor damage from Seismic Toss or Toxic. Mewtwo can easily 2HKO Chansey with Psystrike, a task accomplished with much ease when backed by Calm Mind boosts. Pokemon with Refresh, Aromatherapy, or Heal Bell and a Recovery move can also set up on Chansey at will. Refresh Arceus and Latias are notable examples.</p>