[Overview]

<p>While Hippowdon might seem statistically inferior to many Ubers, it has certain qualities that set it apart from the pack. Its great physical bulk and pure-Ground typing make it a sturdy physical wall, and while it might appear outclassed by Groudon, the hippo has some very distinct advantages over the land titan. Firstly, Hippowdon has access to reliable instant recovery, something that Groudon would kill to get. Also, unlike Groudon and Ground Arceus, Hippowdon has the rare Sand Stream ability, which allows it to support its team in a unique way, and can open up some very interesting team options. Play Hippowdon to its advantages, and it will likely be an excellent addition to your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Wall
move 1: Slack Off
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Whirlwind
move 4: Toxic / Stealth Rock / Ice Fang
item: Leftovers
ability: Sand Stream
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Hippowdon's good physical bulk and access to instant recovery make it an excellent physical wall. It can easily take hits from physical attackers such as Ho-Oh, Choice Scarf Zekrom (watch out for mixed sets), Groudon, Normal Arceus, and Excadrill. It is also a reliable Sand Stream user that can come in repeatedly to set up sandstorm, something that a stall team can use without having to run Groudon, if sunny weather is not to your fancy. Slack Off is obviously the main attraction of this set, allowing Hippowdon to take hits repeatedly and heal off the damage. Earthquake is Hippowdon's reliable STAB move, and Whirlwind allows it to force out dangerous enemies such as Ho-Oh and Normal Arceus. Toxic is preferred in the last spot to defeat last-Pokemon Normal Arceus, which would otherwise set up Swords Dance without fear of being forced out. Stealth Rock is a solid support option due to Hippowdon's good physical bulk, while Ice Fang can be used to score surprise KOs on Garchomp and Rayquaza.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Hippowdon receives Sand Force from the Dream World. While it might seem like a useless ability on Hippowdon unless you run Tyranitar along with it, the ability to run something that's not Sand Stream is precious. With a relatively "inert" ability, Hippowdon can see use on teams based on other types of weather—apart from sun, where it faces huge competition from Groudon. In particular, it can replace Ground Arceus on rain teams, freeing up a slot for another Arceus variant. Note that Stealth Rock is illegal with Sand Force.</p>

<p>The EVs used maximize physical bulk and allow Hippowdon to avoid being 2HKOed by Ho-Oh's Life Orb-boosted Brave Bird; it can then simply recover off the damage. A specially defensive spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD with a Careful nature gives Hippowdon mixed defenses rivaling those of 252/0 Ground Arceus while further enjoying Leftovers recovery; this allows Hippowdon to take hits such as Draco Meteor from Giratina-O. However, the loss of physical bulk would mean that Hippowdon can no longer wall strong physical attacks from Ho-Oh and friends as easily. Hippowdon can also run Stone Edge in the last slot to deal huge damage to Ho-Oh, but between Stealth Rock, Whirlwind, and Slack Off, Ho-Oh is not getting past Hippowdon easily anyway.</p>

<p>Hippowdon's main weakness is its lackluster Special Defense. Powerful attacks such as Draco Meteor from most Uber Dragon-types, and in particular Water-, Ice-, and Grass-type attacks will send Hippowdon blasting off like Team Rocket. Blissey is an excellent teammate for soaking up special attacks, as is Latias for Water- and Grass-type attacks. Gastrodon pairs well with Hippowdon too, as it is one of the best Kyogre counters out there. Rock Arceus can take advantage of the sandstorm's boost to its Special Defense to better sponge attacks such as Draco Meteor and set up Calm Mind. Ferrothorn resists most of Hippowdon's weaknesses and set up entry hazards as well. Lugia is also a great defensive partner that can wall mixed Dialga and synergizes very well with Hippowdon overall. Offensive partners to Hippowdon are essentially those that benefit from sandstorm. Excadrill, Garchomp, Landorus, and Rock Arceus all appreciate Sand Stream support, and Hippowdon can easily switch into and wall Groudon, which gives them trouble. Ho-Oh is also a fantastic offensive partner to use alongside Hippowdon, as it can lure in Kyogre and severely damage it with Brave Bird, while also easily defeating Pokemon such as Grass Arceus.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Hippowdon has the option of running a Curse set, but given the specially offensive nature of the Uber metagame, it will be taken down way too easily. The same goes for a Stockpile set. Yawn can be used to force switches, but Whirlwind is much better, as it is not blocked by Substitute. Fire Fang can be used to hit Ferrothorn for decent damage, and discouraging it from setting up hazards with impunity.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Hippowdon is countered by anything that is not weak to Earthquake and has access to reasonably strong special attacks. Kyogre is especially problematic because it wipes out sandstorm and drowns virtually everything that it touches. Any Uber Dragon-type will take down Hippowdon with a Life Orb- or Choice Specs-boosted Draco Meteor. Physically defensive entry hazard users such as Ferrothorn, Forretress, and Skarmory can also use Hippowdon as setup fodder. Skarmory is particularly problematic because there is absolutely nothing Hippowdon can do to it, while Skarmory can shut down Hippowdon completely with Taunt.</p>