[Overview]

<p>Although the legendary Pokemon with a 100 base stat spread are typically underwhelming in Ubers with only a few boasting a niche set, Jirachi sets itself apart as the only one with significant potential. In a tier filled with Dragon-types, it is easy to see that this comes from Jirachi's fortunate Steel typing. Even among fellow Steel-types, Jirachi stands out due to its respectable bulk and secondary Psychic typing that allows it to also wall a variety of common coverage moves, such as Aura Sphere and rain-weakened Fire Blast. Jirachi's concept grants it access to the excellent support moves Wish and Healing Wish, further reinforcing its separation from the competition. Sadly, wishes always come with limits, and Jirachi's pitiful offensive presence is its twist. Even with the obnoxious Iron Head flinch rate due to Serene Grace, Jirachi must rely on status moves to deal any real damage, leaving it horribly vulnerable to opposing Steel types, especially those carrying Spikes. Unlike other equally crippled walls, Jirachi has all the coverage moves it could wish for, making even a Choice Scarf set a possibility.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Wish
move 2: Stealth Rock / U-turn / Protect
move 3: Iron Head
move 4: Toxic / Thunder
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With its excellent typing and support options, it is no wonder that Jirachi's best set is a defensive one. With the majority of the attacks in Ubers being specially-based, Jirachi can shine with a specially defensive set. Jirachi's typing is its main selling point, allowing it to check an impressive amount of special attackers under rain, such as Mewtwo, Latios, Latias, most Calm Mind Arceus, Shaymin-S, Tornadus-I, Tornadus-T, Kyurem-W, and many more. This makes Jirachi a very attractive option for stall and balanced rain teams while reducing the need for a Choice Scarf revenge killer with its addition. It further supports its team by providing Wish support and creating more switch-in opportunities with U-turn.</p>

<p>Deciding on the four moves to be used can sometimes be a struggle. Wish is an absolute must, as it provides Jirachi with a fairly reliably means of recovery and allows it to capitalize on its ability to support its team. The second choice is the hardest to make. Stealth Rock is generally the preferred option; its overall utility is important to every team. However, if another teammate has Stealth Rock, U-turn can be used to allow Jirachi to pivot on the multiple threats it checks as well as safely pass a Wish. If you want reliability out of your Jirachi, Protect can be used to stall the one turn delay of Wish for more dependable recovery. Iron Head might not do much damage, but it gives Jirachi a STAB attack and a means to stall out status thanks to its high flinch rate. Toxic rounds out the set by providing a crippling status that will generally be the source of most of Jirachi's damage output. Thunder can be used in the place of Toxic as an alternative status for teams that prefer to fight slower opponents rather than attempting to stall them out. Lastly, U-turn can be used with Protect over Iron Head and Stealth Rock if you are more interested in having a sturdy Wish passer than the ability to beat Substitute sets, such as SubSeed Shaymin-S.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Jirachi's EV spread and nature are simple; the goal is to maximize its specially defensive walling potential. A physically defensive variant might seem appealing at first, but the more dangerous coverage options, such as V-create and Bolt Strike, the physical attackers in Ubers possess can obliterate it. Jirachi also has a few other move options that can be used. Ice Punch is noteworthy because it hits Dragon-types, Gliscor, and Shaymin for respectable damage. Thunder Wave and Body Slam can be used as alternative methods of paralysis spreading if 100% paralysis or hitting Ground-types, such as Excadrill, is more important than dealing damage or crippling Ghost-types, such as Arceus-Ghost.</p>

<p>As far as teammates are concerned, Jirachi requires a fair amount of them to succeed. Above all others, Kyogre stands out, as the rain it provides is essential for allowing Jirachi to wall many special attackers, as Fire Blast and Hidden Power Fire would be overwhelming otherwise. Because Jirachi is incapable of touching Steel-types, partners that can spread burn status to them are recommended so that Jirachi can break them with Iron Head. A Rapid Spin user is also strongly suggested because Ferrothorn, Forretress, and Skarmory will not have any difficulty in laying Spikes against Jirachi. Even with its incredible typing and rain support, Jirachi remains vulnerable to Ground-types, so including partners such as Giratina-O and Skarmory is recommended for dealing with Ground-type threats, specifically Groudon and Garchomp. Jirachi is also vulnerable to physical attackers, so physically bulky Pokemon are useful to complete a defensive core.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Iron Head
move 2: U-turn
move 3: Healing Wish / Trick
move 4: Ice Punch / Fire Punch
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Jirachi's poor offensive stats might suggest otherwise, it can also run a supportive Choice Scarf set. Its access to an assortment of coverage and utility moves and Iron Head's high flinch rate helps to offset the underwhelming damage output. Although this might make it appear as if Jirachi is outclassed by Genesect, its increased bulk, Speed, and support options are significant enough to separate the two. Once again, Jirachi's bulk and typing are important, as they allow Jirachi to directly switch into the threats it is intended to check, such as Mewtwo. Furthermore, Jirachi can support its team by sacrificing itself for teammate with Healing Wish or crippling a bothersome threat with Trick. Its base 100 Speed allows Jirachi to outrun the popular Genesect as well as Speed tie with Choice Scarf Palkia.</p>

<p>Jirachi has many move selections that it can run. Iron Head is a mandatory choice, as it offers a reliable STAB and high flinch rate for a somewhat threatening damage output. A support move is also mandatory to capitalize on Jirachi's niche. Healing Wish is the preferred option, as healing a teammate can help your team in certain situations. It also allows your teammates to pull off surprising sweeps while giving you the choice on how to deal with specific threats. Trick is also a viable alternative to cripple threats such as Extreme Killer Arceus. However, caution is advised when using Trick, as a misprediction can foil your attempts, and a large portion of Ubers are indifferent to holding a Choice Scarf or other Choice item. U-turn helps Jirachi capitalize on forced switches and has super effective coverage on some dangerous Pokemon, such as Mewtwo and Darkrai, putting them in a difficult situation. For the final moveslot, you have a choice between Ice Punch and Fire Punch. Ice Punch is generally preferred due to the large quantity of Dragon-types in the metagame. However, Fire Punch is also very appealing for hitting Steel-types that give Jirachi trouble for some decent damage. It is especially useful to allow Jirachi to outspeed and OHKO Choice Scarf Genesect.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature is the best choice of nature, as outspeeding +1 Rayquaza or Choice Scarf Genesect (depending on your coverage move) is important. Jirachi could also use Body Slam as a means to paralyze while dealing damage. It can even go so far as to run a status move to cripple threats that are too bulky for it to hurt. However, this comes at the price of key coverage moves, so it is generally not recommended.</p>

<p>Choice Scarf Jirachi is quite similar to the specially defensive variant in terms of teammates. Kyogre is appealing for weakening Fire Blasts from the likes of Mewtwo so that switching in requires less prediction. However, it is not a requirement, and can even be a hindrance if Jirachi uses Fire Punch. Giratina-O is a more notable partner for its complementary typing and access to a strong Shadow Sneak to restrain opposing Deoxys-S to a single layer of entry hazards. Speaking of entry hazard leads, using a Deoxys can be useful for early entry hazards that help Jirachi rack up damage by forcing multiple switches with Iron Head and U-turn. If it lacks Fire Punch, Jirachi remains vulnerable to common Spikes setters, so having a Rapid Spin user can help prevent them from overwhelming Jirachi and your team.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Jirachi has a very diverse movepool but is sadly crippled by its subpar offensive stats along with its need to devote two slots for reliable recovery. Fire Punch can be used on the specially defensive set for Spikes users, but bear in mind that the rain Kyogre would provide weakens Fire Punch, rendering it useless. Magic Coat is another option that can be used to reduce Jirachi's weakness to Skarmory, Forretress, and Ferrothorn while also allowing it to function as an anti-lead against Deoxys-A and Deoxys-S. It doesn't do anything else, however, and Jirachi already suffers from four-moveslot syndrome. A Calm Mind set looks appealing due to Jirachi's immunity to Toxic, excellent typing, and quadruple resistance to Psyshock. However, its low Special Attack, tight moveset, and weakness to common Spikes users make this inadvisable. Zen Headbutt can be used on the Choice Scarf set to hit Arceus-Fighting while retaining a respectable 40% flinch rate, but it has poor coverage outside of that. Lastly, a special Choice Scarf set could be used, but it is largely outclassed by the physical one, as it can no longer check the threats it is supposed to despite the overall stronger attacks.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Jirachi isn't very difficult at all to counter due to its horribly weak offenses. Both sets struggle against Steel-types, most notably those that lay entry hazards, such as Skarmory, Forretress, and Ferrothorn. Excadrill can also use Jirachi as a free chance to use Rapid Spin or simply threaten it with its strong STAB Earthquake, although it needs to be careful if Jirachi is using Body Slam. The specially defensive set relies on status, so anything that can deal with it is a great way to handle Jirachi. RestTalk users, such as Giratina and Kyogre, have nothing to fear from Jirachi besides excessive Iron Head flinching. Bulkier Substitute users, such as Zekrom, can setup on Jirachi. Strong Fire- and Ground-type attacks can also be used to threaten Jirachi; Gliscor receives a special mention because it has little difficulty switching in. Because the Choice Scarf set relies on flinching and coverage moves, predicting the right attacks or simply using a bulky Pokemon, such as Choice Specs Kyogre, can deal with it. Speaking of Kyogre, strong rain-boosted attacks from it and Palkia can break the specially defensive set. Keep in mind that Jirachi is still quite bulky, and if Palkia is afflicted with a status, even the Lustrous Orb set will lose to it one-on-one. Strong physical attacks, such as Zekrom's Bolt Strike, can hit Jirachi on its softer, uninvested side and force it to switch out. Paralysis and burn will also cripple Jirachi and prevent it from walling as efficiently or revenge killing. Simply changing the weather and removing the rain exposes Jirachi to Fire-type attacks, such as Latios's Hidden Power Fire, and greatly reduces the number of threats that it can wall.</p>