[Overview]

<p>The Dream World gave Jynx a new ability: Dry Skin. This ability allows Jynx to switch into one of the biggest threats in Ubers: Kyogre. Kyogre packs one of the strongest moves in the metagame, Water Spout, and instead of being swiftly OHKOed by the move, Jynx will actually restore its health. Dry Skin also restores 12.5% of Jynx's health each turn in rain, which is very common in Ubers. Jynx's stats are also pretty impressive; she has a high base 115 Special Attack, good base 95 Speed and passable base 95 Special Defense. Unfortunately, Jynx's low base 35 Defense means that pretty much any physical attack will likely KO Jynx, and her weakness to Stealth Rock won't be doing her any favors. However, don't let these drawbacks fool you, because Jynx has access to a deadly combination: Lovely Kiss and Nasty Plot. Lovely Kiss allows Jynx to put any of her counters to sleep and set up Nasty Plot right in front of them.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Lovely Kiss
move 2: Nasty Plot
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Substitute / Focus Blast
item: Leftovers
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Timid
evs: 200 HP / 4 Def / 88 SpD / 216 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The goal of this set is to annoy the opponent, while being able to recover a lot of HP back with Dry Skin and set up. Nasty Plot, in conjuction with Lovely Kiss, form the main key of the set—Lovely Kiss puts Jynx's counters to sleep, and Nasty Plot allows Jynx to set up on them. Ice Beam is Jynx's STAB and main move; Ice Beam is very good in Ubers, as the metagame has a lot of Dragon-type Pokemon that are hit super effectively by it. After a single Nasty Plot boost, Jynx can OHKO Standard Giratina-O and 2HKO offensive Mewtwo, Giratina, Lugia, Arceus, and Dialga. However, Stealth Rock is needed to score the KO on Dialga. Substitute grants Jynx another chance to set up after you put a Pokemon to sleep with Lovely Kiss, while Focus Blast gives you better coverage, though the move should only be used with Life Orb.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The listed HP EVs hit a Dry Skin number, and allow Jynx to switch into Stealth Rock 5 times, and give her optimal bulk; Jynx will never get 2HKOed by Timid Choice Scarf Kyogre's Thunder, Manaphy won't 2HKO Jynx with +3 Grass Knot or +3 Life Orb Ice Beam, Draco Meteor coming from Modest Dialga will not OHKO, Life Orb Mewtwo cannot OHKO Jynx under rain without a Calm Mind boost, and Ferrothorn's Power Whip will not OHKO. Timid with 216 Speed EVs let Jynx outspeed Reshiram and Dialga, who can ruin Jynx's sweep. Leftovers is very good in conjuction with Dry Skin, as it restores 18.75% of Jynx's HP each turn, which is almost a free Substitute; at full health, Jynx can create 12 Substitutes. Life Orb is a good option if you're looking for more offensive power and Dry Skin nullifies the recoil damage. Life Orb grants you a few important KOs as well, such as the ability to 2HKO Ferrothorn with +2 Ice Beam. Icicle Plate is a solid option for the mono-attacker Jynx as well, as it grants Jynx the same KOs as Life Orb but without the recoil. Frost Breath can be used over Ice Beam, as it allows you to win in set-up wars because Frost Breath will always land a crit.</p>

<p>Because of Dry Skin, Jynx is able to beat the mono-attacking Kyogre by itself. Jynx needs rain support, as Dry Skin is her main niche in Ubers, so Kyogre makes an ideal partner. Jynx also appreciates entry hazards, most notably Spikes and Stealth Rock, as they can guarantee a few KOs. Ferrothorn, Skarmory, and Forretress can supply those, while Forretress can provide Rapid Spin and Volt Switch support as well. All of the aforementioned three synergize well with Jynx. Ground-types are good partners, as they attract Water- and Ice-type moves for Jynx to set up on, and are immune to Thunder aimed at Jynx. Excadrill should be especially noted because it also provides Rapid Spin support. Toxic Spikes are optional; they allow Jynx to take on special walls better but won't let Jynx put them to sleep. However, most of the Pokemon you would put to sleep, such as Dialga and Ferrothorn, are immune to Toxic Spikes anyway.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Jynx can run a Calm Mind set, but she is too frail to use it in Ubers; Nasty Plot gives Jynx more immediate power. Psyshock is a good option over Focus Blast or Substitute, as it allows Jynx to hit Chansey, Blissey, and Calm Mind Kyogre harder, but Psyshock is pretty weak in the Ubers metagame. Jynx can also opt to use a PerishTrapper set, having access to both Mean Look and Perish Song, but as previously mentioned, Jynx is just too frail. Grass Knot can be used in order to beat offensive Calm Mind Kyogre, as Grass Knot hits Kyogre harder than Psyshock. Jynx also has a large support movepool, including Sweet Kiss, Toxic, Taunt, Light Screen, and Reflect. Wish is also an option, but Chansey and Blissey are much better Pokemon because of their much higher HP.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Any weather outside of rain really messes things up for Jynx, especially sun, as it will decrease Jynx's HP each turn due to Dry Skin's effect. Groudon brings immediate sun to the battleground, but it cannot switch in safely due to Ice Beam. Tyranitar changes weather as well, doesn't care about Ice Beam and has super effective STAB moves, though it is OHKOed by a +2 Focus Blast. Some Arceus formes, such as Fire Arceus and Steel Arceus, laugh at Ice Beam, set up on Jynx with Calm Mind or Swords Dance, and strike her with super effective STAB Judgment or a physical attack aimed at her low Defense. Other Arceus formes, such as Ghost Arceus and Rock Arceus, will take more damage from Ice Beam, but will do their job reliably.</p>

<p>Scizor resists Ice Beam and has super effective moves. Scizor is slower than Jynx, can U-turn out, break Jynx's Substitute, and give the incoming teammate momentum. Cloyster does not care about Ice Beam, can Shell Smash, and then proceed to use Icicle Spear or Rock Blast to break through Jynx's Substitute and OHKO her. Manaphy uses rain against Jynx, as Hydration cures Lovely Kiss, and Manaphy can set up Tail Glow or Calm Mind on Jynx. Giratina-O is OHKOed by +2 Ice Beam, but has Shadow Sneak, so if Jynx is not behind a Substitute, Giratina-O can OHKO her. Offensive Calm Mind Kyogre with Thunder beats Jynx one-on-one, but must be wary of freeze status, critical hits, Psyshock, and Grass Knot. Ho-Oh has enormous Special Defense, which lets it tank Ice Beams and hit Jynx back with Sacred Fire, while being able to recover its health via Recover or Roost. Heatran walls Jynx completely, but since she is usually used on rain teams, Heatran is not much of a threat to her. Tentacruel takes nothing from Ice Beam, but is weak to Psyshock and can't do anything back. All of the aforementioned counters, bar Manaphy, will not enjoy being asleep.</p>