[Overview]

<p>Too long has Latias shied away from the embattled Uber tier, for with the aid of her precious Soul Dew, her time is at hand. From nothing into something, Latias makes her triumphant return. To the horror of every Kyogre, Latias can now use her numerous resistances, fantastic ability, and excellent Speed to their maximum potential. She isn't just an offensive pivot; Latias can be a balanced all-out attacker, a potent sweeper, or an exceptional special wall. Although her brother Latios is far more offensively inclined, her bulk is more than enough to make up for her relative power. However, Soul Dew is not the perfect solution. Her weaknesses to Dragon-, Ice-, Bug-, Ghost-, and Dark-type attacks remain a hindrance, and her physical bulk is only average at best. But none of this is enough to put a damper on her bright spirit; Latias is the rising star of the Uber tier.</p>


[SET]
name: Classic
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Roost
move 3: Dragon Pulse
move 4: Thunder / Psyshock
item: Soul Dew
nature: Timid
evs: 48 HP / 208 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Latias is traditionally defensive in nature, do not be deceived; she can act as an incredible offensive pivot in her own right. Excelling in the ability to switch into a multitude of threats, such as Kyogre and several Calm Mind Arceus, Latias immediately places offensive pressure in the form of either a possible Calm Mind or attack. Although she does not grab the greatest initial momentum out of all Latias sets, she has the potential to grab the most momentum due to Calm Mind and heavy offensive investment.</p>

<p>After a single Calm Mind, Latias is capable of dealing more damage to the opponent than any other set while also giving her the potential to sweep. Dragon Pulse is a reliable STAB attack, dealing considerable damage thanks to her heavy Special Attack investment. Roost grants Latias reliable recovery, essential for maintaining her health and for checking threats. For her last slot, both options are useful for their utility against Kyogre. Thunder is the preferred option thanks to its superior coverage against Steel-type Pokemon such as Genesect and Scizor. However, if Latias needs to deal with opposing Calm Mind users, Psyshock will allow her to hit the opponent's unboosted Defense stat, winning any and all Calm Mind wars. It also allows her to beat Chansey, Blissey, and Terrakion more effectively.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Being an offensive pivot, having as much Speed and Special Attack as possible is critical. The Speed is necessary for outspeeding the maximum number of threats, while the Special Attack is necessary for KOs and increasing overall offensive pressure. As such, Latias's EV spread emphasizes offense in favor of bulk, guaranteeing an OHKO on Palkia regardless of Stealth Rock as well as allowing her to Speed tie with opposing positive base 110 Speed Pokemon like Latios. Even with her weakened focus on bulk, she still possesses excellent special bulk; her special bulk is greater than support Grass Arceus.</p>

<p>Even in the constrained role of an offensive pivot, Latias remains flexible. EVs can easily be taken from Speed and invested in bulk depending on personal preference. 60 HP / 208 SpA / 240 Spe with a Timid nature can be run if outspeeding Terrakion is the only concern, while 100 HP / 216 SpA / 192 Spe with a Timid nature can be run for outspeeding Garchomp. Feel free to take away even more EVs from her Speed, but do recall that taking too much Speed away is counterproductive to her purpose. Likewise, EVs can be moved Special Attack to HP for increased bulk. However, it's largely counterproductive; the heavy Special Attack investment is crucial for increasing her offensive threat. Without the listed investment, not only is Dragon Pulse weakened, but she also loses some critical power on her coverage move. Notably, at least 204 EVs are required to OHKO Forretress with Thunder after Stealth Rock damage. If bulk is really at a premium, running the Defensive Calm Mind set may be more effective.</p>

<p>Although Latias is offensively focused, her slots remain readily adaptable. If Calm Mind's offensive power isn't needed, Tailwind doubles the speed of the rest of the team. This allows her to possibly retain momentum even after she switches out. Hidden Power Fire loses utility against Kyogre, but incinerates opposing Steel-type Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Forretress, and Excadrill under sun. However, it's weather dependent, does negligible damage to Heatran and Ho-Oh, and comes at the cost of losing the Speed tie against other positive base 110s. Surf on the other hand maintains her ability to Speed tie with these Pokemon as well as having greater Base Power so that it still damages Steel-type Pokemon considerably. For example, Surf always 2HKOes specially defensive Scizor after Stealth Rock. However, it too is weather dependent as well as being ineffective against opposing Ferrothorn. For those seeking to maintain their utility against Kyogre, Grass Knot is a possible option while also being significantly more effective against Tyranitar and Groudon. However, its lesser coverage against Steel-type Pokemon in comparison with Thunder hurts its viability. Similarly, Thunderbolt can be used over Thunder for its greater accuracy outside of rain, but its lesser power along with the prevalence of rain makes it a situational option at best.</p>

<p>Latias has two main issues as offensive pivot: low initial bulk and restraint on coverage. Due to her lowered bulk, Choice and Thunder Wave variants of Kyogre can prove problematic. Most notably, Choice Scarf Ice Beam is an almost guaranteed 2HKO after Stealth Rock; this is a serious problem given that any Latias caught on the switch will hamper momentum. Similarly, a full power Choice Specs Water Spout forces a mindgame as Latias is only able to attack or Roost; Calm Mind is not an option due to the high risk of being 2HKOed. Her lack of bulk also hurts her ability to safely take on Calm Mind sweepers such as Electric Arceus who heavily invest in Speed and Special Attack.</p>

<p>Latias suffers from a lack of coverage. Although she can get past many of her checks with the right coverage move, she only gets one. As such, Latias will always be left helpless against certain checks. Even then, U-turn users such as Genesect will always force her to switch out, seriously harming her ability to sweep.</p>

<p>To utilize Latias to her maximum potential, play to her strengths. Due to her offensive pivot nature, she fits best on teams with an offensive focus. Avoid placing her on teams with a more defensive focus or even balanced, as her lack of bulk against threats such as Choice Specs Kyogre will prove disappointing.</p>

<p>Provided she is placed on an offensive team, Latias does not need to be used with any specific Pokemon. She acts as an amazing glue Pokemon by filling crucial gaps in teams. For instance, most offensive teams find Kyogre problematic and cannot afford to run Pokemon such as Gastrodon or Grass Arceus due to their inferior offensive pressure. These teams greatly appreciate Latias's Speed, Special Attack, and still excellent special bulk, especially as she carries reliable recovery and Calm Mind unlike Palkia. However, Latias greatly dislikes switch-ins who carry super effective attacks, like Genesect, so Pokemon who resist her weaknesses make great teammates. Depending on the team, good choices might include Steel-types such as Steel Arceus and Forretress, or it might include Pokemon with more situational typing like Ho-Oh and Fighting Arceus. Speaking of switch-ins, many offensive Pokemon are capable of utilizing her forced switches to pose an immediate threat. Genesect, Kyogre, and Groudon are some of the many Pokemon who happen to be particularly good at this role. Similarly, entry hazard support is great for taking full advantage of her ability to force switches as well as increasing the chance of her KOs. Finally, make sure her coverage problem is addressed in some form. For instance, if Latias lacks Hidden Power Fire, have a method of dealing with Ferrothorn such as Xatu, who coincidentally also provides Magic Bounce support for the rest of the team.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Roost
move 3: Dragon Pulse
move 4: Roar / Refresh / Substitute
item: Soul Dew
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While this Latias may lack good coverage and may not be as instantly powerful as most Uber Dragons, her excellent special bulk and speed make a defensive Calm Mind set very viable.</p>

<p>For the short-term, Latias focuses on disruption, handling threats, and warring through attrition. Do not attempt to sweep early-game; she has too many checks who can stop her at this stage. Instead, focus on using her fantastic special bulk to easily come into threats such as Kyogre and Calm Mind Arceus. From there, proceed to wear the opponent's team down. Dragon Pulse acts as her reliable STAB attack, doing respectable damage despite the lack of investment. Calm Mind acts as her utility against opposing Calm Mind users, while Roost increases her longevity. Her last slot is an extension of her overall purpose. Roar handles opposing setup sweepers along with weakening most switch-ins, providing there is sufficient entry hazard support. Refresh maintains vitality by curing her of detrimental status, granting utility against status users like Gliscor. Substitute eases prediction, providing an opportunity to scout, damage, or switch regardless of Pursuit.</p>

<p>Only when the time is right, when the opponent's team is sufficiently weakened, does Latias come in to finally sweep. Calm Mind acts as her win condition, dramatically increasing her potential so that she becomes a force to be reckoned with. Roar phazes any opposing Calm Mind user who dares set up Calm Mind alongside her, allowing her to proceed unheeded. Refresh crushes any team that now only has status to defeat Latias. Substitute protects her from most non-damaging moves as well as allowing her to stall out low PP attacks, which can enable her to defeat foes such as Ferrothorn.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The longer Latias is able to last throughout the match, the better her chances of sweeping. As much bulk as possible is necessary for outlasting the opponent, setting up Calm Minds, and for using her non-attacking moves to their highest potential. Yet when Latias is finally able to sweep, she needs to be able to outspeed the maximum number of threats. As such, her EV spread provides the maximum amount of bulk possible while still maintaining the Speed necessary to Speed tie with opposing positive base 110 Speed Pokemon like Latios. The invested bulk also ensures that Kyogre's Choice Scarf Ice Beam is virtually unable to 2HKO after Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>Just like the teams she can fit on, Latias's EV spread is flexible. EVs can be diverted from HP to Special Attack if more power is warranted. 216 HP / 40 SpA / 252 Spe with a Timid nature trades a bit of bulk for the ability to OHKO Palkia after Stealth Rock. However, taking too many EVs away from HP compromises her bulk, diminishing her ability to last throughout the match. Heavy investment in Special Attack will leave her with inadequate bulk, limited coverage, and a non-attacking move that is only situationally effective; a more offensive Latias set is the better option. Similarly, EVs can be diverted away from her Speed and into her power and bulk. 252 HP / 40 SpA / 24 SpD / 192 Spe with a Timid nature can be run if the only concern is outspeeding Garchomp, guaranteeing an OHKO on Palkia after Stealth Rock along with some extra special bulk. Feel free to take away even more Speed EVs, but note that the lesser Speed makes it more difficult to sweep; this is counterproductive for her purpose. If the team calls for a very bulky Latias, specially defensive is the superior option.</p>

<p>Although Latias's other moves are mandatory for her sweeping purpose, her last slot can run a rather unique option&mdash;Reflect Type. By copying the opponent's typing, not only does it allow her to switch into Kyogre's Choice Specs Ice Beam after Stealth Rock, but also completely changes her checks. For example, Tyranitar is unable to Pursuit her effectively. A Genesect or Scizor switch-in will find their U-turn or Pursuit ineffective, instead granting momentum to Latias. Ferrothorn will now find its Leech Seed and other attacks useless, leaving it setup bait. However, Reflect Type is a situational move; more often than not will it be complete deadweight against teams that lack Pokemon who Latias can benefit from. Reflect Type can also backfire to disastrous results; once it has been revealed, it can be played around.</p>

<p>Due to her emphasis in bulk, Latias has a deficiency in offense. This leaves her initial offensive pressure quite poor in comparison with her more offensive sets; she doesn't grab momentum nearly as easily. Do not expect any immediate results, for Latias needs to find the right time to set up Calm Minds for offensive impact. This problem is further augmented by her lack of coverage. Although this issue is worked around when she finally sweeps, this does not mean it is resolved in the short-term. Her checks are still as annoying as ever should they not be weakened and safely switched in, especially since she lacks the coverage to immediately get rid of them. For example, Genesect with its U-turn will always force Latias to switch out should she lack a Substitute.</p>

<p>Certain issues against Kyogre remain despite the increased level of bulk. Although she is still capable of defeating Calm Mind Kyogre one-on-one, it's nowhere even close to the ease offensive pivot experiences. Should she lack Roar, significantly more time will be required, increasing her chance of losing to an unfortunate critical hit or detrimental status; this problem is similarly seen against other opposing Calm Mind users. Likewise, Thunder Wave Kyogre proves a hassle should she lack Refresh. What's more, Latias still suffers from the Choice Specs Kyogre mindgame, since though Water Spout is now manageable, Ice Beam is still far too powerful for Latias to handle without Reflect Type.</p>

<p>Latias shines when she is used strategically for long-term benefit. She fits best on teams that take their time, such as stall, Spikes-stacking, and balanced. It is unwise to place her on teams that demand extreme offensive bias, as her initial offensive pressure is unable to keep up with their pace.</p>

<p>Only entry hazard support is mandatory when using this set as they are crucial for capitalizing on her ability to force switches as well as wearing down the opponent's team. Otherwise, Latias doesn't require any other specific team support, instead acting as a fantastic glue Pokemon by providing both a win condition as well as considerable threat checking utility. However, as Latias is dependent on entry hazards, spinblockers such as Ghost Arceus, Giratina, and Giratina-O can prove great teammates despite common weaknesses, especially since they provide a convenient resistance to Bug-type attacks. Early-game Latias still dislikes switch-ins who manage to switch in with super effective attacks, like Genesect, so Pokemon who resist her weaknesses are great teammates. Good choices can range from Jirachi to Heatran and Ferrothorn to Forretress, many of whom happen to provide valuable entry hazard support. Carrying a physical wall such as Wallceus or Skarmory is also wise for taking on physical threats like Swords Dance Ghost Arceus. Finally, because she lacks offensive coverage, make sure to have a game plan against her checks in the short-term. For instance, should Ferrothorn safely switch in on a Latias lacking Substitute, Xatu and Forretress can help minimize its impact while providing Magic Bounce and Rapid Spin support respectively.</p>


[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Draco Meteor
move 2: Roost
move 3: Grass Knot / Thunder
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Surf
item: Soul Dew
nature: Timid
evs: 164 HP / 148 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>An all out offensive Latias may seem inferior to Latios, but don't be fooled! Latias's excellent special bulk sets it apart from its more bloody thirsty brother.</p>

<p>Casting aside the consistency of Dragon Pulse, Latias takes up her most powerful STAB option&mdash;Draco Meteor. By far her strongest immediate attack, it pulverizes any Pokemon lacking a resistance or great special bulk. No longer can bulky Dragon-types such as Giratina-O or Dragon Arceus possibly survive; they are now OHKOed with ease. Even after the Special Attack drop, Draco Meteor is still powerful enough to discourage Dragon-type Pokemon, most notably Rayquaza, from seeking a free switch-in. Roost provides reliable recovery, increasing her lifespan so that she can better fulfill her purpose.</p>

<p>Latias's remaining slots are dedicated towards maximizing coverage. One slot provides utility against Kyogre; the other slot provides weather dependent coverage against Steel-type Pokemon. Grass Knot and Hidden Power Fire is the preferred attacking combination for most teams, in particular those utilizing sun, due to a lesser reliance on weather, its ability to deal with all auto-weather inducers such as Groudon and Tyranitar, and its specialization against Latias's key checks, in particular Ferrothorn and Jirachi. For those using rain, Thunder and Surf are better options. Although it is highly reliant on rain and incapable of defeating opposing Ferrothorn, this combination is capable of defeating Manaphy, Lugia, and Heatran. It is also better suited for blasting holes or even sweeping thanks to superior overall coverage and power.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>When maximizing damage output, both Speed and Special Attack are crucial. Yet, with the increased power of Draco Meteor along with its inherent hit-and-run nature, Latias can afford to place more emphasis on bulk while still maintaining great offensive pressure. As such, her EV spread guarantees the 2HKO on specially defensive Giratina regardless of Stealth Rock, ensures that Timid Kyogre's Choice Scarf Ice Beam is unable to 2HKO after Stealth Rock, and allows her to outspeed opposing positive base 102 Speed Pokemon like Garchomp. If Latias lacks Hidden Power Fire, simply transfer 4 Speed EVs into Special Attack as the Speed compensation is unneeded.</p>

<p>Although bulk is one of Latias's greatest strengths, it is advised to refrain from any further bulk investment. Lowering her Special Attack greatly weakens her damage output, while lowering her Speed hinders her ability to offensively force switches by outspeeding threats. This is unacceptable for a set geared towards strong initial offensive pressure.</p>

<p>Diverting EVs from HP into Special Attack and Speed is always an option. For those running Hidden Power Fire, 148 HP / 164 SpA / 196 Spe with a Timid nature can be run if one wants to always OHKO Groudon after Spikes. 100 HP / 164 SpA / 244 Spe with a Timid Nature can be run if outspeeding Terrakion is the primary concern- the 100 HP EVs will still prevent the 2HKO from Choice Scarf Kyogre's Water Spout after Stealth Rock. Finally, if Hidden Power Fire is not used, a spread with Speed maximized is an option. 88 HP / 168 SpA / 252 Spe with a Timid Nature allows her to Speed tie with opposing positive base 110s. If at this point more power is still needed, consider using Latios instead.</p>

<p>Despite her focus on strong coverage, her coverage slots can be configured to provide any desired utility. STAB Dragon Pulse inflicts consistent damage, bluffs, and allows her to more effectively sweep late-game should the opportunity arise. However, the loss of either utility against Kyogre or Steel-type Pokemon hurts its viability. Similarly, STAB Psyshock deals with Fighting Arceus and possibly even Chansey or Blissey after some prior damage. If opposing Calm Mind users are an issue, Psych Up allows Latias to copy her opponent's current boosts. This recharges Draco Meteor for reuse and allows her to defeat any Calm Mind Kyogre. When paired with Psyshock, Latias becomes capable of taking on many Calm Mind Arceus formes. However, Psych Up is highly situational and cuts into coverage; it should only be considered if there is no other alternative for taking on Calm Mind users on the team. Thunderbolt can be used over Thunder for its greater accuracy outside of rain, but its lesser power along with her intended usage under rain makes it a situational option at best.</p>

<p>The bane of this set is its vulnerability to setup sweepers. Although Pokemon such as Dragon Dance Rayquaza are still unable to set up after a Draco Meteor, dangerous sweepers such as Extreme Killer Arceus, Mewtwo, and Latios are capable. Left unchecked, these threats will prove particularly problematic; this issue is further exasperated by her inability to reliably boost.</p>

<p>Latias is unable to check Calm Mind Kyogre without Psych Up; this problem is similarly seen against Calm Mind Arceus. Thunder Wave variants will also prove problematic, albeit to a lesser extent due to reduced Speed investment. Likewise, a full power Choice Specs Water Spout forces a mindgame as she is forced to either attack or Roost.</p>

<p>Playing with this set is quite straightforward: find an opportunity to switch in, decide whether to attack or Roost, and then switch out if the situation turns undesirable. As such, despite her lean towards offense, she fits on almost any team. However, unlike other Latias sets, all-out attacker requires some specific team support in order to function at full capacity. It is critical that she is paired up with teammates who can deal with dangerous setup sweepers. For example, Wallceus takes on physical setup sweepers like Swords Dance Arceus while Ferrothorn deals with special setup sweepers such as Kyogre, Latias, and Manaphy. Otherwise, Latias will prove to be a great glue Pokemon, providing excellent balance between both offensive and defensive utility. However, should Latias mispredict using her coverage, switch-ins like Genesect who carry super effective attacks will be most disliked. As such, Pokemon who resist her weaknesses happen to be great teammates, in particular Steel-type Pokemon such as Steel Arceus, Heatran, and Jirachi. As Latias's great offensive pressure tends to force a lot of switches, partnering her with offensive Pokemon such as Groudon, Kyogre, and Genesect is advised. Similarly, Pokemon who can set up entry hazards such as Skarmory and Forretress are excellent for punishing switches as well as increasing the chance of her KOs. Finally, because Latias still has a few coverage deficiencies, make sure these shortcomings are patched up in some form. For instance, should she lack Thunder, a Toxic user or very potent attacker such as Kyogre or Zekrom can help deal with troublesome Lugia.</p>


[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Light Screen
move 2: Roost
move 3: Roar
move 4: Dragon Pulse / Draco Meteor
item: Soul Dew
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 120 SpD / 136 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Looking for the best Kyogre counter in the game? Search no further, for in her most defensive role yet, Latias's special bulk is simply titanic&mdash;even specially defensive Giratina is outmatched. No other Latias set compares with her sheer utility, for she not only checks and counters the very same threats that they are capable of, but can accomplish feats that other Pokemon can only dream of.</p>

<p>Following the use of Light Screen, Latias and her team becomes nigh impenetrable on the special side. No longer will she have to fear Kyogre's Choice Specs Ice Beam; any Kyogre is reduced to mere impotency. For as long as Light Screen remains active and she be at reasonable health, no special attacker in the game has the strength to overcome her. Not even Mewtwo's Psystrike, renowned for being the bane of special walls like Chansey, is capable of getting past Light Screen. In fact, Mewtwo will find itself checked by Latias, who can switch in with ease, possibly Light Screen, and then proceed to heal up with Roost or phaze with Roar. It's not just Mewtwo either: any Calm Mind Arceus, Deoxys-A, Dialga, other Latias, Manaphy, Omastar, Palkia, Reshiram, Shaymin-S&mdash;even Choice Specs Kyurem-W itself&mdash;will find themselves surprised by her sheer tenacity. Even wearing Latias down will prove difficult, for Roost provides reliable recovery and allows her to maintain long-term presence. Roar phazes any threat who tries to set up, weakening most switch-ins provided there is sufficient entry hazard support.</p>

<p>Despite her lack of investment, Latias is no weakling; her last slot provides a potent STAB attack. Dragon Pulse is the preferred option for its high reliability. For those who desire more power, Draco Meteor is a better option. Its great power initially exceeds that of any Calm Mind Latias set, devastating opposing Dragon-type Pokemon. However, its Special Attack drop makes it inconsistent; Light Screen and Roar help minimize any serious repercussions.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>In the Uber metagame, the sheer number and power of its special attackers necessitate heavy investment in special bulk. But unlike other special walls, Latias can afford to place more emphasis on Speed while still maintaining titanic special bulk. As such, her EV spread provides the maximum special bulk possible while still allowing her to outspeed opposing neutral base 95 Speed Pokemon like Kyurem-W and Rayquaza. The invested bulk also ensures that Mewtwo's unboosted Life Orb Ice Beam is virtually unable to 2HKO after Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>Latias's EVs can easily be tweaked depending on personal preference to more effectively take on certain special attackers. Feel free to take some EVs away from Speed and invest it in her bulk instead. 252 HP / 12 Def / 148 SpD / 96 Spe with a Calm Nature can be run if the only concern is outspeeding neutral base 90 Speed Pokemon like Kyogre and Reshiram; this allows her to better deal with threats such as Deoxys-A and Mewtwo. More Speed EVs can be removed, but note that lesser Speed makes it significantly more difficult for her to use Light Screen or Roost before a relatively slow hit, or out-phaze with Roar.Conversely, a greater investment in Speed is also possible. 252 HP / 52 SpD / 204 Spe with a Calm Nature can be run for the ability to outspeed positive base 90 Speed Pokemon, but it comes with a significant decrease in Special Defense. However, any further Speed investment is counterproductive due to compromising her ability to safely switch into Kyogre's Choice Specs Ice Beam after Stealth Rock; this is a significant incentive for her usage.</p>

<p>Light Screen, Roost, and Roar are crucial to Latias's purpose. However, if Latias's Dragon STAB isn't necessary, Refresh can be run to alleviate status issues. Toxic allows Latias to more effectively take down opposing Pokemon who can no longer be forced out, such as last-Pokemon Calm Mind Arceus. It also deals significant damage to very bulky opponents like Lugia. However, both options leave her particularly vulnerable to Taunt users and fail to take advantage of Soul Dew's Special Attack boost; this hurts their viability.</p>

<p>Because Latias places so much emphasis into her bulk, it is understandable that her offense suffers. Although she is no offensive deadweight thanks to Soul Dew and her STAB Dragon-type attacks, she still isn't very strong; she has the weakest overall offensive pressure out of all Latias sets. This problem is further augmented by her lack of coverage. Although any special checks are now ineffective, her physical checks remain troublesome. For example, Genesect with its U-turn will always force Latias to switch out.</p>

<p>Her issue in offense has little effect on her performance against Kyogre. Latias's increased special bulk, Light Screen, and Roar gives her far more luxury; no longer will she have to play on Kyogre's terms&mdash;she comes in whenever she wants to. For instance, a Latias at full health is capable of switching into a full power, critical hit Choice Specs Water Spout. In every single relevant scenario, she will reliably and consistently counter Kyogre regardless of set. Her only possible issue, last-Pokemon Calm Mind Kyogre, is averted by getting in first and utilizing Roar to rack up entry hazard damage. Light Screen allows other teammates to deal with Kyogre more effectively, while she still has the ability to take it on in a pinch; she can successfully outstall the attacking moves of a +6 mono-attacker Kyogre despite the possible burn.</p>

<p>Latias is great for teams that need extra reassurance against special threats. Despite her lean towards defense, she fits on all but the most offensive teams. As such, avoid placing her on teams like hyper offense, or her lack of strong offense will prove disappointing.</p>

<p>The closest thing to a glue Pokemon out of all Latias sets is specially defensive. She isn't really used with specific teammates; she holds a team together by providing an answer to a wide range of threats. Latias is invaluable for supplying specific team support in phazing, Light Screen, and more. However, physical attackers who carry super effective attacks, like Genesect, are a huge hindrance, so physically bulky Pokemon who resist her weaknesses happen to be great teammates. In particular, physical walls such as Wallceus and Skarmory are fantastic partners, especially since they are better suited for taking on physical threats like Swords Dance Ghost Arceus. Because Latias in turn is particularly good at taking on special attackers, entry hazards from the likes of Ferrothorn and Forretress can help make the most of her ability to force switches as well as compensating for her reduced offensive power. Latias also finds many last-Pokemon situations particularly bothersome, so Perish Song support from an Arceus forme is greatly appreciated. Cleric support from Blissey or Chansey is also wise for curing her of detrimental status like Toxic. Lastly, make sure to have some way of dealing with her non-special checks. For instance, should Ferrothorn manage to safely switch in, Xatu and Forretress are excellent solutions who can provide Magic Bounce and Rapid Spin support respectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As one of the most versatile Pokemon in the Uber tier, Latias will almost always have something that appeals to what needs to be done. If a dual screens user is needed, why not consider Latias? Combined with Light Clay, she can reliably set up dual screens and then sacrifice herself with Healing Wish to give a damaged sweeper another crack. Interested in a Kyogre-checking Wish supporter? Why not use Latias, who boasts incredible longevity and Levitate? Or for a bit of daring, why not maximize Latias's excellent base 110 Speed with a Choice Scarf and Trick? And with so many niche moves that she can use to reasonable success, there are plenty of options to choose from: Psycho Shift, Safeguard, Thunder Wave, Magic Coat, Reflect, Hidden Power Fighting, Double Team, Charm, DragonBreath, Sucker Punch, Mist Ball, Icy Wind, Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Protect, and RestTalk; Latias has a combination of utility moves for any scenario.</p>

<p>That said, Latias is often outclassed in these roles: Deoxys-S, Latios, Cresselia, or even Deoxys for dual screens; Chansey, Blissey, or Jirachi for Wish support; and almost every single notable Dragon-type used in Ubers for Choice Scarf. Still, Latias can fill pretty much any utility role on a team, and if there's one that fits, use it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Latias is a very fun Pokemon to use; she isn't as fun to face. Her only true counter is Swords Dance Ghost Arceus, who boasts greater Speed, reliable recovery, and the ability to either OHKO with Shadow Force or at worst 2HKO with Shadow Claw. Any other checks are dependent on the selection of both her moves and set.</p>

<p>When playing against Latias, be wary of mindlessly switching in. When combined with sufficient entry hazard support, Roar will quickly whittle the health of most checks down; she can potentially overpower these weakened checks later during the game. As such, checks who have obscure weak points and either Pursuit or reliable recovery will generally perform the most consistently. Unless met with Grass Knot on the switch-in, Tyranitar can easily weather Latias's attacks, checkmating with Pursuit or Crunch. Swords Dance Bug Arceus with X-Scissor performs similarly to Swords Dance Ghost Arceus, but is severely damaged on the switch-in by sun-boosted Hidden Power Fire. Multiscale Lugia, preferably specially defensive, can use Toxic and either phaze or stall her with impunity, but once damaged, even it will fall to consecutive rain Thunders on the switch.</p>

<p>The remaining checks to Latias are less consistent, as they either have noticeable weak points, only work against certain sets, are easily worn down, or are predominately revenge killers. It's not a bad idea to carry more than one of these checks to fully address Latias; if one check goes down against a certain set, the others can still potentially defeat her. This also combats her ability to defeat checks through attrition. Speaking of attrition, this can be used against her; without Leftovers, Latias can eventually be worn down through residual damage. However, working against her Levitate makes this easier said than done, as she is immune to both Spikes and Toxic Spikes.</p>

<p>Steel-types are solid checks to Latias, only fearing attrition or her weather-reliant Hidden Power Fire, Thunder, or Surf in accordance to their secondary typing. Genesect and Scizor are the most notable, placing a halt to most sweeps with their STAB U-turn and possible Pursuit. Both Jirachi and Heatran wall her when placed in favorable weather. Ferrothorn is a huge annoyance to Latias lacking Substitute or the aforementioned Hidden Power Fire, stacking hazards with almost complete impunity. Bulky Excadrill can easily tank her STAB attacks and retaliate with Earthquake. Although rare, Metagross can checkmate Substitute-lacking Latias with Meteor Mash or Pursuit.</p>

<p>Support Dark Arceus and utility counter Psychic Arceus with Payback easily defeat any Latias lacking Roar. Extreme Killer Arceus 2HKOes with ExtremeSpeed, but cannot safely switch into an all-out attacker Draco Meteor after Stealth Rock. Calm Mind Arceus formes such as Dark, Psychic, Steel, Ghost, Rock, Ice, and Bug generally check offensive pivot and all-out attacker quite well. Dark and Psychic Arceus are the most consistent; Steel Arceus outspeeds with Roar but is vulnerable to last-Pokemon Psyshock or sun-boosted Hidden Power Fire; Ghost and Rock Arceus under sandstorm are unable to defeat Psyshock variants at all; Ice and Bug Arceus are similar but have vulnerabilities to both Stealth Rock and sun-boosted Hidden Power Fire. However, all Calm Mind Arceus have issues against the specially defensive set. They also cannot defeat Roar defensive Calm Mind; Steel Arceus, the only exception, fights last-Pokemon Latias to a stalemate.</p>

<p>Any faster Pokemon who is capable of OHKOing Latias can act as a revenge killer. These consist of strong physical Choice Scarf users such as Zekrom, Kyurem-B, Outrage Palkia, and Heracross, and those with natural Speed advantage such as Swords Dance Dragon Arceus and Outrage Kingdra under rain. Strong priority users such as Giratina-O and Mamoswine can also pick off weakened Latias. Darkrai can Dark Void and attempt to set up, but if Sleep Clause is activated or she already has a Calm Mind or Light Screen up, then its chance of victory will be slim.</p>

<p>Should Latias lack Psyshock or Refresh, Chansey and Blissey with their ridiculous special bulk can stop most sweeps. Wobbuffet can use her as setup bait, but has a vulnerability to entry hazards and cannot actually defeat Latias. Ho-Oh can possibly be a fantastic check with its terrific special bulk and Regenerator, but its vulnerability to Stealth Rock along with Surf, Thunder, and Psyshock limits its potential. Sucker Punch Bisharp forces Latias out, but its paltry special bulk ensures that it won't be able to do so consistently.</p>