[Overview]

<p>Magnezone possesses the unique ability to trap and kill Steel-types who resist Dragon-type moves, in particular the tiresome Ferrothorn, allowing the many Dragon-types of the Uber tier to fire off their otherwise unresisted STAB moves much more freely. With good defenses, as well as resistances to Dragon-, Dark-, and Ghost-type moves and the BoltBeam combination, Magnezone can switch in on a multitude of attacks. However, it does have a few notable weaknesses, including a 4x weakness to Ground-type attacks, so proper team support is necessary to allow it to perform its role effectively.</p>

[SET]
name: SubCharge
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Charge Beam
move 3: Thunder
move 4: Hidden Power Ice
item: Leftovers
ability: Magnet Pull
nature: Modest
evs: 212 HP / 252 SpA / 44 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to take full advantage of Magnezone's Steel-trapping abilities. The combination of Substitute and Charge Beam is Magnezone's most effective way to remove Ferrothorn, probably the biggest roadblock to any Dragon-type's sweep. As long as Magnezone avoids switching into Thunder Wave or Leech Seed, and the opposing Ferrothorn lacks the extremely rare Bulldoze, Magnezone can easily set up a Substitute to stop Ferrothorn from Leech Seeding it, and then proceed to set up with Charge Beam. The best Ferrothorn can do is 2HKO Magnezone's Substitute with Power Whip, giving Magnezone plenty of time to set up. Once Magnezone gains enough boosts or begins to run low on HP, start smacking Ferrothorn around with boosted Thunders, while maintaining an intact Substitute. After Ferrothorn goes down, proceed to smack whatever comes in ridiculously hard. Hidden Power Ice is used in the final slot for maximum coverage alongside Thunder.</p>

<p>Magnezone can use the same strategy against other Steel-types not named Dialga, Heatran, or Steel Arceus. However, some Steel-types might try to prevent Magnezone from setting up on them. Skarmory can use Whirlwind against greedy Magnezone, while Forretress, non-Choice Band Scizor, and Jirachi can use Volt Switch or U-turn to escape. In these situations, it is best to just heavily damage them with Thunder instead of trying to set up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>44 Speed EVs allow Magnezone to outspeed minimum Speed Scizor and severely damage it with Thunder before it gets to U-turn out. Special Attack is maximized for optimal power, while the rest go into HP to boost Magnezone's decent bulk. Flash Cannon can be used instead of Hidden Power Ice for STAB, as well as to hit Tyranitar super effectively, but as Hidden Power Ice is super effective against most of Magnezone's enemies, namely Groudon, Garchomp, and Zekrom, it is better in almost all situations.</p>

<p>The most obvious teammates to Magnezone include Dragon-types, who appreciate the removal of Steel-types. Dragon Arceus is extremely difficult to stop with the removal of Steel-types, as are Rayquaza, Salamence, Dialga, Reshiram, and Zekrom. Extreme Killer Arceus and other Swords Dance-using Arceus formes also appreciate Skarmory gone. The removal of Ferrothorn is like AIDS to an opposing team, as most rain attackers, such as Choice Scarf Kyogre, Palkia, Kingdra, Omastar, Manaphy, Electric Arceus, and Water Arceus, suddenly become opportunistic infections that utterly destroy teams with Ferrothorn gone. Kyogre in particular is a good teammate to Magnezone as Drizzle dampens Magnezone's Fire-type weakness while making Thunder perfectly accurate. Rapid Spin users are also extremely nice to have, because when Ferrothorn realizes it cannot defeat Magnezone, it might set up Spikes in Magnezone's face to spite you, and having a full set of Spikes on your side of the field is never, ever fun. Excadrill is an excellent Rapid Spin user, as it can defeat Giratina-O in the rain and easily take down Blissey and Chansey. Tentacruel is another great Rapid Spin user to run in the rain, because of its excellent Special Defense and access to a form of recovery in Rain Dish.</p>

<p>Technically, once Magnezone has trapped the opposing Steel-type, it cannot be countered because countering involves switching. However, there are a number of Steel-types who do not care about Magnezone's presence at all. Dialga resists Thunder and takes virtually nothing from Hidden Power Ice, can use Fire Blast or Aura Sphere to destroy Magnezone, or just Roar it away if it so desires. Heatran can roast Magnezone with its Fire-type STAB or OHKO with Earth Power. Excadrill outspeeds Magnezone, is immune to Thunder, does not take much from a neutral Hidden Power Ice, and OHKOes in return with Earthquake. Groudon is also troublesome, as it OHKOes with Earthquake and cuts the accuracy of Thunder to 50% with Drought. Garchomp and Ground Arceus also scare Magnezone away with the threat of Earthquake. Chansey and Blissey can take hits from Magnezone all day long. With that in mind, Lugia is a good teammate to Magnezone, as it walls Groudon, Garchomp, Ground Arceus, Excadrill, and Dialga easily. Terrakion is also another great partner, as it does not care about Heatran and can send Chansey and Blissey to the next dimension with its powerful Fighting-type STAB.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Thunder
move 2: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Ice
move 3: Volt Switch / Thunderbolt
move 4: Flash Cannon
item: Choice Specs
ability: Magnet Pull
nature: Modest
evs: 208 HP / 252 SpA / 48 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Choice Specs brings Magnezone's already excellent Special Attack up to 591, making it useful not only as a Steel-type trapper, but also as an offensive powerhouse. To illustrate this fact, standard Palkia, Lugia, Mewtwo, and specially defensive Forretress are always OHKOed by Thunder after Stealth Rock damage. Hidden Power Fire allows Magnezone to heavily damage Ferrothorn to the point where it cannot tank hits any more; it is also Magnezone's best option against Steel-types in the sun. However, if you desire coverage, then Hidden Power Ice works best, as it OHKOes Rayquaza and Garchomp while 2HKOing maximum HP Groudon. Volt Switch is used to scout, dealing good damage with Magnezone's excellent Special Attack, but Magnezone must be wary of Groudon and Garchomp, which are immune to it. Thunderbolt is more reliable if it isn't raining, but it is noticeably weaker than Thunder, so Volt Switch is generally the better choice for the third moveslot, allowing Magnezone to scout the opponent's team and build momentum. Flash Cannon is used to hurt Tyranitar and as a workable secondary STAB, but doesn't really have much other use.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Special Attack is necessary to do as much damage as possible. Factoring in the imperfect Speed IV from Hidden Power Fire, 48 Speed EVs allow Magnezone to outrun and KO minimum Speed Scizor before it can U-turn out or KO with Superpower. The rest of the EVs go into HP for added bulk, which works well with Magnezone's excellent typing.</p>

<p>Magnezone makes an excellent companion to Extreme Killer Arceus, as the removal of Steel-types allows Arceus to forgo Earthquake or Overheat for Recover or another coverage move. Dialga also makes a good teammate, because although it shares some weaknesses with Magnezone, it is a reliable user of Stealth Rock and appreciates having Steel-type Pokemon removed, clearing the way for it to do major damage with its STAB Dragon-type moves. Forretress and the Deoxys formes are reliable users of Spikes, and can also deploy Stealth Rock effectively.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screen
move 1: Thunder / Volt Switch
move 2: Reflect
move 3: Light Screen
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Explosion
item: Light Clay / Air Balloon
ability: Magnet Pull
nature: Modest
evs: 252 HP / 208 SpA / 48 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Magnezone's excellent resistances and good defenses allow it to set up dual screens easily. Magnet Pull allows Magnezone to trap and set up on most Steel-types , giving it an edge over Bronzong, which has Levitate and better overall defenses. Reflect and Light Screen help sweepers to set up, which can be potentially game-ending. Thunder does excellent damage, OHKOing Skarmory and 2HKOing Forretress and Scizor after Stealth Rock damage, and allowing Magnezone to remain a potent Steel-type trapper as well as a dual screen user. While the sheer power of Thunder is hard to ignore, Volt Switch is an interesting option as it allows Magnezone's frail teammates to get a relatively safe switch-in. Hidden Power Fire lets Magnezone take out Steel-types in the sun, which lowers Thunder's accuracy to 50%, but Explosion allows Magnezone to get a sweeper in for free.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>48 Speed EVs enable Magnezone to always outrun 0 Speed Scizor, allowing it to KO before Scizor U-turns to safety or KOes Magnezone with Superpower, while 252 HP EVs give Magnezone good overall bulk to take hits more easily while setting up screens. The rest go into Special Attack, and a Modest nature is used so Magnezone can still use Magnet Pull to hit Steel-types hard. Air Balloon is an alternate option over Light Clay, granting Magnezone a temporary immunity to Ground-type attacks, which helps it to set up dual screens. However, Light Clay's increase in the duration of Reflect and Light Screen generally makes it the better choice.</p>

<p>As this Magnezone is focused on support more than attacking, the best teammates are sweepers that can take advantage of the dual screens and the removal of the foe's Steel-type Pokemon. The best choices are usually offensive Dragon-types, as they can come into most of Magnezone's checks and spam their STAB moves. Rayquaza, Salamence, Dragon Arceus, and Giratina-O are good choices, as they cover all of Magnezone's weaknesses and have enough power and bulk to set up under the protection of Reflect and Light Screen. Extreme Killer Arceus under screens is a death sentence to offensive teams. It becomes virtually impossible to revenge kill, as the screens let it tank a hit from revenge killers and continue its sweep. Extreme Killer Arceus also appreciates Magnezone removing Skarmory for it.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Magnezone can attempt to hold a Choice Scarf and be a revenge killer, but it is generally too slow to do so. Hidden Power Ground hits Dialga and Heatran for super effective damage, but does nothing otherwise. Thunder Wave can help to make up for Magnezone's low Speed, and provides support to its teammates. Explosion, although a powerful physical attack, does too little damage due to its nerf in BW to significantly hurt any of its potential targets, and will most of the time result in a dead Magnezone for nothing. Sturdy allows Magnezone to always survive at least one hit, but Magnet Pull lets it trap and easily set up on Steel-types, which is the main reason to use Magnezone.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Technically, when Magnezone has trapped its prey, it cannot be countered because switching cannot occur, unless the opposing Pokemon has Volt Switch or U-turn. However, there are still Pokemon who match up excellently against Magnezone. Groudon, Ground Arceus, and Garchomp are immune to Thunder and can easily OHKO with a 4x super effective Earthquake. Dugtrio can switch into any Choice-locked Electric-type attack and set up with Hone Claws while Magnezone can do nothing. Specially defensive Tyranitar can easily take all Magnezone's attacks barring Flash Cannon and OHKO with Earthquake or Low Kick. Non-Choice Dialga packing a Fire-type move can lure in and KO Magnezone, and Heatran can easily OHKO with Fire Blast or Earth Power as well. Opposing Magnezone can trap and KO your Magnezone if they have Hidden Power Fire, but you can still escape with Volt Switch if you win the Speed tie. Finally, Ferrothorn can still potentially defeat Magnezone if it carries Bulldoze, as rare as it is.</p>