[Overview]

<p>With a movepool even Arceus envies, decent bulk, and acceptable Speed, Mew is one of the most versatile Pokemon in the game. It has all the necessary tools to be a fantastic team player and can run a Baton Pass set, scout, or even lead. That being said, Mew's poor typing, as well as the nerf to Explosion in BW, and the addition of Dragon Tail does slightly hamper Mew's effectiveness, but it is still very capable of doing its job when played well.</p>

[SET]

name: Baton Pass
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Swords Dance / Nasty Plot
move 3: Baton Pass
move 4: Substitute / Taunt / Magic Coat
item : Leftovers / Lum Berry
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 168 SpD / 20 Def / 68 Spe

[Set Comments]

<p>Mew has the ability to set up an almost certainly game breaking sweep in the blink of an eye, and with dual screen support, it can be very hard to stop. The strategy is simple: bring Mew in when the coast looks clear, usually after one of your own Pokemon faints, and start boosting. Rock Polish is a must to provide the recipient with the Speed necessary to attempt a sweep. The choice between Swords Dance and Nasty Plot depends on the recipient your team is built around; a physically based recipient will require Swords Dance, while a specially based one will need Nasty Plot. Baton Pass is the crux of the set and lets Mew pass any boosts it has accumulated to something more capable of using them. The last slot decides what Mew can effectively set up on. Substitute is the primary option, as it blocks status, prevents Dragon Tail's phazing effect, and can be Baton Passed, although Taunt is still an option to stop Roar or Whirlwind. Magic Coat has a few interesting uses, namely shooting back status moves such as Dark Void and sending any traditional phazing moves back at the user. </p>

[Additional Comments]

<p>Leftovers is usually the best choice to help Mew keep up a Substitute, and survive a bit longer to potentially squeeze in another boost, but Lum Berry is the preferred option should you forgo Substitute for Taunt or Magic Coat, as an untimely status affliction can spell doom for Mew. The EVs listed provide optimum bulk while still outspeeding Deoxys-S after a Rock Polish, though an alternate spread of 252 HP / 168 Def / 20 SpD / 68 Spe with a Bold nature will let Mew survive a Life Orb-boosted Shadow Claw + ExtremeSpeed from Normal Arceus, without screens, while still outpacing any stray Deoxys-S after a Speed boost. Don't be afraid to use Baton Pass before gaining any boosts if the situation is not yet ideal for Mew. Of course, it is not a very good idea if Reflect and Light Screen are already in place, but bringing Mew out early in the game and immediately using Baton Pass out can give you a shot at taking on your opponent's Baton counter(s) before they get a chance to take on Mew.</p>

<p>Mew really depends on dual screen support to keep it alive long enough to set up, so teammates capable of consistently providing them are necessary. Mewtwo, Latios, and Deoxys-S are the most effective dual screen users, each with their own niche. Mewtwo has access to Selfdestruct to bring Mew in unscathed, while also getting a decent hit on the opponent's active Pokemon. Latios follows suit with Memento, this time sharply lowering the opponent's offensive stats in exchange for its remaining life. Lastly, Deoxys-S possesses insane Speed and can lay Stealth Rock or Spikes in addition to the screens. Keep in mind that all three share common weaknesses with Mew, so make sure to have Ghost-, Dark-, and Bug-type resistances worked into the rest of the team. </p>

<p>Groudon is the usually the best physical recipient, though Terrakion gives it competition through better STAB coverage and resistance to ExtremeSpeed. Though much less bulky, Terrakion can potentially snag a third devastating attack boost if it comes in on Dark Pulse / Crunch thanks to its ability, Justified. On the other hand, Dialga is the best specially-based recipient; with sky-high Special Attack, great resistances to both ExtremeSpeed and Bullet Punch, as well as solid overall bulk, it will nearly always pull off a sweep when successfully passed to. Wobbuffet can net Mew or a dual screen user a free turn to start setting up, but keep overall weaknesses in mind. Scizor and Forretress both have good synergy with Mew, and can bring Mew in off of a slow U-turn or set up and remove away entry hazards to support the team, respectively. Kyogre can generally force common phazers such as Groudon and Lugia out should they try and stand in Mew's way. </p>

<p>Mew's counters are largely dependent on the final move choice on the set. If Substitute is used, users of Roar and Whirlwind, such as Groudon and Skarmory, can freely phaze Mew's hard work away; the same goes for Dragon Tail users such as Giratina and Lugia if Taunt is chosen. Lastly, Darkrai and Prankster users can be troublesome without Magic Coat to redirect their Dark Void and priority Taunt, respectively. That said, there are a few Pokemon that can outright kill Mew, even when behind screens. Choice Specs Kyogre can 2HKO with Water Spout or just spam Ice Beam should the opponent know your recipient is a Groudon. Choice Band Tyranitar can 2HKO with Crunch or Payback, but neither Dialga or Groudon will mind switching into it much, while Terrakion will actually enjoy it. Punishment Ho-Oh can cause problems as well, and can catch you off guard with Whirlwind, or land a burn on the recipient with Sacred Fire. Although relatively uncommon, Choice Scarf Deoxys-S can outspeed Mew or the recipient after a boost and cripple them with Trick.</p>

[SET]

name: Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Taunt / Magic Coat
move 3: U-Turn
move 4: Fake Out / Magic Coat
item: Lum Berry
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[Set Comments]

<p>This modified version of Mew's familiar 4th generation lead set can prove quite useful for offensive and balanced teams needing a Stealth Rock user, scout, and anti-lead, but are strapped for teamslots. The drastic drop in Explosion's power took an important card out of Mew's deck, but without it Mew still functions nearly as well. Stealth Rock is, as always, an important move to have, especially considering the relatively few Pokemon in the Uber environment capable of deploying it. The choice between Taunt and Magic Coat dictates how Mew will deal with opposing leads' attempts to set up. Taunt denies slower leads such as Groudon, Forretress, and Dialga the use of their supporting moves, most notably preventing their early use of entry hazards. Magic Coat allows Mew to bounce faster or priority Taunts back at the user, as well as sending back Darkrai's Dark Void; it can also help in dealing with early entry hazard users, often preventing the opponent from setting up their hazards and getting a layer up for yourself at the same time. U-turn is a great utility move and can help Mew escape unfavorable lead matchups, break Focus Sashes on leads such as Deoxys-S and Deoxys-A, as well as provide Mew with some usefulness midgame after the other moves have served their purpose. The choice between Fake Out and Magic Coat depends on whether you prefer to break Focus Sashes, or have extra insurance against opposing leads setting up. It should be noted that the extra damage from Fake Out can at times be significant, and the ability to break Deoxys-A's Focus Sash and tack on the rough equivalent of Stealth Rock damage before U-turning out of Pokemon such as Deoxys-S and Darkrai is never to be overlooked. </p>

[Additional Comments]

<p>Mew does not have many options other relevant to the lead spot. Explosion can still hurt Pokemon such as Chansey, Hasty Palkia, and Kyogre, but it never OHKOes without a ridiculous amount of Attack investment (we are talking Adamant with a Choice Band here), so it is rarely worth it. Will-O-Wisp is an interesting option to cripple Groudon leads and other random physically-based switch-ins, though the listed moves are more useful overall.</p>

<p>Being a support oriented Pokemon itself, Mew does not require much support other than help dealing with a select few leads: Deoxys-S, Darkrai, Ghost Arceus, Choice Scarf Kyogre, and Rayquaza. Choice Band Scizor has good synergy with Mew, and can take 4 HP variants of Deoxys-S and Darkrai out with Bullet Punch after Fake Out + U-turn from Mew. Ghost Arceus can Magic Coat Mew's Stealth Rock / Taunt back, or 2HKO it with STAB Judgment or Shadow Claw, while Mew can do nothing back. Groudon can generally handle Ghost Arceus, though variants with Will-O-Wisp can prove troublesome. Palkia can switch into Kyogre's Water Spout and threaten Rayquaza out after Mew breaks any potential Focus Sash with Fake Out. Giratina-O can keep Mew's Stealth Rock on the field, and also pick off Deoxys-S and Mewtwo with Shadow Sneak; note that their typings stack weaknesses to Dark- and Ghost-type attacks, however.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>While Mew's movepool is incredibly vast, its typing and stats force it to compete for most other roles with its relative, Mewtwo. Explosion still stings and can be used to put a dent in whatever may be in at the time, but nothing of importance is OHKOed by it without substantial Attack investment. Mew can pull off a double status set with Thunder Wave and either Will-O-Wisp or Hypnosis, though Darkrai generally does this better due to a more accurate sleep-inducing move in Dark Void and much greater Speed. A physically defensive set with Will-O-Wisp, Super Fang, Taunt, and Softboiled can really hamper common switch-ins to Mew, such as Giratina-O, Groudon, Swords Dance Arceus, and Rayquaza, though Mewtwo usually outclasses this due to its higher Speed. A more offensive Baton Pass set with one of Rock Polish / Swords Dance / Nasty Plot, 2 coverage moves, and Baton Pass could let Mew snag a quick kill before passing the boost and makes it a bit less dependent on dual screen support; keep in mind that the recipient will be much less threatening with only one of either an Attack or Speed boost, as both are usually necessary to pull off a clean sweep. Running Mew alongside standard bulky set-up sweepers such as Rock Polish Groudon and Flame Charge Reshiram can mitigate this problem, as Mew can pass one stat boost, preferably +2 Atk / SpA in this case, while they retain the ability to boost their Speed themselves, if given the chance. </p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mew can run far too many sets to have a concrete counter; figure out the set, and then make a plan. The Baton Pass set's counters depend mostly on the fourth move choice; it resembles a game of rock, paper, and scissors: Taunt beats Roar, Substitute beats Dragon Tail, and Magic Coat beats Dark Void and priority Taunt users. Although technically speaking, Lum Berry + Taunt still beats Dark Void, it is a lot nicer to just put Darkrai to sleep, and still works if Mew switches into Toxic Spikes. MixQuaza can break through the dual screens with Brick Break and punish either Mew or the recipient very hard with a Life Orb-boosted Draco Meteor followed by ExtremeSpeed. Rayquaza also has the option of using Dragon Tail to force the recipient out should they not be protected by a Substitute. Most Uber Pokemon commonly seen in the lead spot can 2HKO the lead set, though they must be wary of status on the second turn if your lead is slower. Choice Scarf Kyogre always beats the lead set, OHKOing Mew with Water Spout before it can accomplish anything. Ho-Oh is usually a good switch-in as Mew can really only Taunt it, while Ho-Oh can threaten back with a potentially boosted Punishment or STAB Sacred Fire / Brave Bird; however, with Taunt preventing recovery, Stealth Rock will wear Ho-Oh down very quickly. Choice Specs Reshiram is a threat to every Mew set so long as the sun is out, as Blue Flare will at worst 2HKO. In Dream World, Shadow Tag Chandelure can trap and kill any Mew lacking +2 Speed to Baton Pass out with. However, under Light Screen and with the suggested EVs, Choice Scarf Chandelure's Shadow Ball is only a 4HKO, factoring in Leftovers.</p>