[Overview]

<p>While Qwilfish is definitely not the first thing that comes to a person's mind when they select a Pokemon for their rain team, it has numerous niches that allow it to perform well in the Uber tier. With its ability Swift Swim, Qwilfish reaches an incredible Speed stat of 538, allowing it to outrun many Scarf users in the metagame. Qwilfish can function not only as a support unit, absorbing and setting up Toxic Spikes, in addition to disrupting walls and sweepers, but also as an offensive rain sweeper. However, Qwilfish does have its faults. Its minuscule defenses make it struggle to take even resisted attacks and will not last long unless played with great care. Overall though, with the right support, Qwilfish can function well even in Ubers, and can surprise unprepared teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Spikes / Toxic Spikes
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Destiny Bond
move 4: Waterfall
item: Life Orb / Splash Plate
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Qwilfish's ability Swift Swim, it reaches a high Speed that allows it to fulfill many roles. In fact, it is the fastest user of Toxic Spikes in rain. It can easily get one layer of an entry hazard with its spectacular Speed, or cripple a wall with Taunt. Rain-boosted Waterfall dents even bulky Pokemon, and should a wall attempt to take down Qwilfish, it can drag them down along with it using Destiny Bond. It will also stop bulky sweepers such as Dialga, Zekrom, and Ho-Oh from sweeping a team thanks to playing mind games on the opponent when it alternates between Taunt and Destiny Bond. The bulky sweeper must either let both Pokemon be KOed or try to waste Destiny Bond's 8 PP. Taunt can easily stop that and force the sweeper to switch, or have both Pokemon KOed. The final thing that Qwilfish is useful for is that it can absorb Toxic Spikes. Many offensive rain teams fall prey to Toxic Spikes, and Qwilfish will render any attempt to set up Toxic Spikes useless.</p>

<p>However, Qwilfish's lack of bulk will always be its Achilles' Heel. It will often be 2HKOed by even weak resisted attacks, not to mention being easily OHKOed by any sweeper's attacks. This will make very difficult for Qwilfish to switch in. Life Orb recoil does not help too much either. A Splash Plate might be used if Life Orb recoil is undesirable. However, Qwilfish is so frail that 10% of its HP matters little. Even with defensive EV investment, it lacks the bulk to take neutral attacks and must employ a hit-and-run strategy while setting up entry hazards or stopping sweepers.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An Adamant nature is generally preferred for Qwilfish just for the extra damage, as the Jolly nature only allows it to outrun +2 Blaziken, Scarf Darkrai, and Shaymin-S. However, if one considers that important, then it is usable, especially due to the fact that Qwilfish might not attack very often anyway. Poison Jab might be used as a secondary STAB over Waterfall if one favors dealing damage to Water-types over taking down walls, beating sweepers, or setting up entry hazards, depending on which move it chooses to replace. However, the supporting moves are generally what allow Qwilfish to be so versatile. Qwilfish can be only used in the rain, as it allows it to double its Speed and increase the power of its STAB Waterfall.</p>

<p>Qwilfish generally does not rely too much on teammates to fulfill its role due to its ability to prevent sweeps on its own and set up at almost any time. However, Kyogre is essential to provide the rain for Qwilfish. Giratina-O also makes a great teammate for Qwilfish, as it blocks any attempt to remove entry hazards that Qwilfish has set up. Grass Arceus resists a large number of Qwilfish's weaknesses, and can take care of Groudon, one of the best checks to Qwilfish.</p> 

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Taunt / Destiny Bond
move 3: Waterfall
move 4: Poison Jab
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Qwilfish might also fulfill the role of an offensive sweeper in the rain. With its reasonable Attack and excellent Speed due to its ability Swift Swim, it can potentially set up and sweep. Qwilfish's dual STABs provide great coverage, and are able to OHKO Palkia, Kyogre, Lugia, Ho-Oh, Chansey, Mewtwo, and more after Stealth Rock and a Swords Dance boost. If Qwilfish is facing a Pokemon it struggles to harm, such as Giratina, it can render it useless with Taunt, attempt to drag down along with it using Destiny Bond, or set up with entry hazards. Qwilfish's Poison typing also allows it to fulfill the great utility role of absorbing Toxic Spikes, and being immune to poison prevents it from being worn down like other Swift Swim sweepers such as Kabutops and Kingdra.</p>

<p>Qwilfish's primary weakness, as mentioned before, is its poor bulk. It must really rely on prediction in order to pull off a Swords Dance, or it might get KOed immediately or after a couple of turns of Life Orb recoil. Qwilfish must attempt to force out something it can check, such as Chansey, and set up Swords Dance. Once it successfully gains a Swords Dance boost, it can severely punch holes in the opposing team or even sweep it. If it encounters something it struggles to take down, it can lay an entry hazard or drag it down with Destiny Bond in order to have the last laugh. When Qwilfish is in no condition to attempt a sweep, it still has the power to revenge weakened Pokemon with Destiny Bond.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Rain support from Kyogre, of course, is essential for Qwilfish's success. The Speed boost will allow it to outrun almost anything. This allows it to sweep entire teams late-game. It is inadvisable to allow Qwilfish to attempt a switch before an opponent's Groudon is removed from their team. Removing Qwilfish's rain almost immediately stops it from sweeping. Explosion might be used over Taunt in order to take out something when it has no options left. This is especially useful in case Groudon switches in. Waterfall cannot do much to it due to the sun, and Explosion can cause a lot of pain for Groudon. Team Preview is very useful to mark out the threats that can take Qwilfish down.</p>

<p>Due to its frailness, Qwilfish can never prepare a sweep by switching in on anything. Even switching in on a resisted attack can prevent it from sweeping. Maintaining Qwilfish's health is critical. It must instead come in after a teammate has fainted, threaten the enemy Pokemon out, and set up. Wish support from Chansey might prove useful although it would be hard for it to switch back in when it is at low health. However, using Wish and then switching to Qwilfish when on relatively high health might prove useful, because if Qwilfish switches in on a resisted attack and survives it, the health provided by Wish will replenish its health and prepare it for a sweep. Mewtwo might also be a good partner for Qwilfish as it can take down Pokemon such as Ferrothorn, Rayquaza, Groudon, and Giratina, which Qwilfish cannot harm.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Due to Qwilfish's limited movepool, there are not many extra options that it might run. The utility set might run Poison Jab over Waterfall in order to deal with Water-types such as Kyogre and Palkia, but lacks the power to deal significant damage. Due to Qwilfish's frailness, Flail can also be used to deal strong neutral damage to Pokemon that resist Waterfall. Pain Split is an option that allows it to cripple Pokemon with high HP, but it cannot survive long even with replenished HP. Aqua Tail allows Qwilfish to do some extra damage at the cost of accuracy. Explosion can be used over Destiny Bond as it acts similarly, but does not guarantee a kill due to its lack of power. Toxic can also be used in order to cripple Groudon and Giratina-O as they switch in.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Groudon is a surefire counter to Qwilfish. It provides the sun that cuts Qwilfish's amazing Speed and weakens Waterfall and its immense physical bulk allows it to take even a boosted attack with ease. Rayquaza renders rain's effects useless so that it can outrun and destroy Qwilfish. Dialga, Giratina, and Ferrothorn resist Qwilfish's dual STABs and can easily KO it, but must be wary of Taunt and Destiny Bond dragging them down as well. Any Pokemon with a priority move will easily take care of Qwilfish due to its minimal bulk. Scarf Mewtwo also outruns Jolly Qwilfish and can OHKO it with Psystrike.</p>