[Overview]

<p>Salamence is often overshadowed by Rayquaza. However, many people forget that the two can be tango-partners! Dragon-type attacks are only resisted by one type in the game, Steel, thus making this combo very hard to stop. Either Rayquaza or Salamence can soften opposing Steel-types, allowing the other to wreak havoc on the opponent's team. However, sharing the same typing does have its drawbacks. Being weak to common Dragon- and Ice-type attacks is not pleasant at all. Moreover, both are weak to Stealth Rock and hurt badly by common priority moves, such as Bullet Punch and ExtremeSpeed, thus both require a lot of team support.</p>

<p>Salamence's offensive stats and typing make it an amazing sweeper. With base 135 Attack, access to Dragon Dance, and a very wide movepool with good coverage, it's guaranteed that the flying salamander will be a nightmare for many teams. Moxie, Salamence's Dream World ability, grants an Attack boost each time Salamence kills an opponent, and with the aforementioned qualities, it's more than likely to happen. Salamence might be a forgotten wonder, but don't let its rarity fool you, as it is definitely a deadly force in Ubers.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Outrage
move 2: Dragon Claw
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Fire Blast
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Moxie
nature: Naive
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While this set may seem outclassed by Garchomp and Palkia, Salamence has one great advantage over them: its newly introduced ability, Moxie. Choice Scarf Salamence reaches a blazing Speed of 492, which outpaces many top threats in Ubers, such as Deoxys-A, Darkrai, Mewtwo, and Shaymin-S. It also Speed ties with Palkia, the most common Choice Scarf user. The point in this set is to surprise the opponent, such as in a situation where the opponent has a boosted Mewtwo packing Ice Beam at 80% of its health. Salamence's base Speed is lower than Mewtwo's, so the opponent will likely leave Mewtwo out, and then will be shocked as his genetic Pokemon is OHKOed by Outrage. But it doesn't stop there! After Salamence has killed one of the opponent's Pokemon, its Dream World ability activates, and boosts its Attack by one stage. Dragon Claw is Salamence's best choice against a weakened opponent, as it doesn't lock Salamence or leave it confused. Fire Blast and Earthquake are fillers, but they have perfect coverage with Salamence's Dragon-type STAB moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Naive nature is used to make Salamence as fast as possible, while not lowering its Special Attack, so Fire Blast will not lose power. Moxie is the preferred ability as it is this set's niche in Ubers. Dragon Dance is not needed anyway, thus Moxie is the superior ability. The EVs are straightforward: maximize Salamence's Attack so Outrage will hit as hard as possible, and maximize Salamence's Speed so it will outrun as many foes as it can. A Naughty nature can be used if you wish to strike the opponent harder, but it will cost you some Speed, meaning you will be slower than Choice Scarf Dialga, Choice Scarf Hydreigon, and +1 Rayquaza, which might cost Salamence's sweep.</p>

<p>When Salamence utilizes a Choice Scarf, it becomes a great cleaner, so before you send in Salamence, you will want to stack some damage on the opponent. There are a few ways to do so. Entry hazards will put a lot of pressure on the opponent; Stealth Rock and Spikes in particular can take 50% maximum out of the opponent's health, making Salamence's job much easier. Hard hitters, such as Choice Specs Dialga, Choice Specs Palkia, Choice Band Zekrom, and more, also do this well. Mixed Rayquaza once again is an amazing partner, as it can lure out many physical walls, such as Groudon and Lugia, and hit them hard with Draco Meteor. Salamence's weaknesses to Ice-, Rock-, and Dragon-type moves make Steel-type Pokemon great partners, as they resist all of Salamence's weakness. Scizor deserves a special mention here as well, as it can utilize U-turn to bring Salamence in safely. Stone Edge can be used over Earthquake or Fire Blast in order to pick off Flying-types, such as Lugia and Ho-Oh. Draco Meteor can be used over Dragon Claw to surprise Groudon and Lugia, but the stat drops make Salamence setup bait.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Outrage
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Fire Blast
item: Life Orb
ability: Intimidate / Moxie
nature: Naive
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Salamence's combination of Speed, ability, and typing allow it to be a potent sweeper, capable of swiftly setting up and stealing the opponent's momentum. Once it has set up, Salamence is nigh unstoppable due to its excellent coverage; this is augmented by its excellent base 100 Speed, which allows it to outspeed many of the common Uber Choice Scarf users at +1. Unfortunately, without a boost Salamence's Attack is noticeably lacking when compared to Uber behemoths like Groudon, Zekrom, and Rayquaza. The choice of ability will help Salamence either get going or stay going; Moxie enables Salamence to break through walls that would ordinarily be able to sponge its attacks, while Intimidate is immensely helpful while setting up. Without Intimidate, Salamence has an incredibly hard time setting up without Wobbuffet or dual screens support, but without Moxie it can be difficult to put a full-fledged sweep into action. Really, it's up to personal preference, although in general Intimidate tends to be more effective due to its utility.</p>

<p>Due to Salamence's apparent inferiority in this role to Rayquaza, many would choose to run the latter if picking between the two. Because of this, the best way to utilize Dragon Dance Salamence is as a partner to Rayquaza. The reasoning behind this logic goes as follows: the opponent will rarely carry more than one hard check to the generic "Dragon Dancing Dragon / Flying type"; by carrying both Salamence and Rayquaza, one can overwhelm this check by way of sheer pressure and force. Any variant of Rayquaza will do, really, but they all perform slightly different roles: mixed shreds Salamence's counters to pieces, Dragon Dance aims to get rid of its own checks (and, by extension, Salamence's), and Swords Dance works like a combination of the two.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Max Speed is incredibly important for Dragon Dance Salamence, as going lower will open it up to all sorts of revenge killers at +1. This is especially important for beating Genesect; at +1 Attack, Salamence outspeeds and 2HKOes it on the switch. At +2&mdash;presumably attained by Moxie after a kill&mdash;Genesect is outsped and OHKOed. This is one of the biggest reasons to use Salamence over, say, Rayquaza. While Salamence lacks the raw mixed attacking power of our favorite meteorological serpent, its higher Speed means that it can assuredly avoid revenge kills from common Choice Scarf users like Genesect and Kyurem-W. Unfortunately for Salamence, its high Speed means nothing against priority, nor can its paltry bulk stand up to many of the powerful revenge killers that still outrun it at +1.</p>

<p>Within Salamence's diverse movepool, there are several alternate move choices that are viable. Because of their similar coverage, Brick Break and Earthquake are somewhat interchangeable; Brick Break allows Salamence to hit Chansey without locking itself into Outrage and to break Ferrothorn at +2 regardless of weather. It also hits Air Balloon Heatran which, though rare, is nonetheless a threat. Earthquake has more general utility, however, as it hits threats like Jirachi, Steel Arceus, and Dialga harder. Stone Edge and Aqua Tail could be used to hit Lugia and Skarmory (under rain) hard, respectively. However, Salamence's need for neutral coverage usually discourages this choice&mdash;no matter what one does, running one of them will cause certain walls to be able to counter Salamence with increased ease. Finally, Dragon Claw could be run over Outrage to pick off miscellaneous Dragon-types that Salamence conveniently outspeeds. However, such a role is better left to a Choice Scarf set; Dragon Claw simply lacks the raw power that Dragon Dance Salamence requires to sweep.</p>

<p>While Dragon Dance Salamence greatly appreciates the boost that Life Orb grants it, other items deserve mention due to their ability to enhance Salamence's ability to set up. Lum Berry allows Salamence to shrug off miscellaneous status; this can be pivotal when Salamence requires a free turn to set up or land an attack. Dragon Gem could also be used to get the ball rolling, due to the powerful Outrage that it grants Salamence (so powerful, in fact, that it OHKOes specially defensive Giratina at +0!). When running one of these items, it's still important to provide Salamence with plenty of opportunities to set up. Though it will be easier, getting a sweep going still requires near-perfect timing when using something as frail as Salamence.</p>

<p>Due to its relative lack of offensive power, Salamence greatly appreciates hazards to facilitate its sweep. Deoxys-S is a great choice for setting these up, being able to provide both hazards and screens; especially when running Moxie, dual screens give Salamence the opportunities it needs to set up effectively. Forretress, Skarmory, and Groudon are also viable partners. Forretress and Skarmory have excellent defensive synergy with Salamence, being able to sponge ExtremeSpeeds and Scarf Dragon-type attacks. Forretress also has the notable ability to spin, which is incredibly useful due to Salamence's frailty and weakness to Stealth Rock. Groudon powers up Fire Blast, as well as being able to take priority aimed at Salamence.</p>

<p>When running Salamence, it's important to recognize that its lack of power means that it has several counters that need to be accounted for. Groudon can give this set major problems, especially if it's carrying Stone Edge. Wallceus, Skarmory in rain, and Lugia can all counter Salamence as well; Skarmory in particular is one of the few things that can stall out a +2 Outrage, even after Stealth Rock. This is where carrying Rayquaza along with Salamence is helpful. When running Dragon Dance Salamence, a mixed, Swords Dance, or even Dragon Dance Rayquaza can come in immensely handy for dealing with these opponents; due to its ability to carry different coverage moves and sheer attacking power, all of the threats mentioned above can be dealt with with relative ease.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>Salamence can run a mixed set very well, as it gets access to many amazing offensive moves, such as Draco Meteor, Outrage, Earthquake, Fire Blast, and Brick Break. However, such a set is outclassed by Rayquaza, who has better offensive stats and priority in ExtremeSpeed. Salamence can learn one move that Rayquaza can't: Roost, which is an amazing reliable recovery move, especially on offensive Pokemon. In the Ubers environment, however, Salamence will likely not get the chance to Roost. In the rain, 4 SpA Hydro Pump 2HKOes specially defensive Skarmory and Forretress, and OHKOes Heatran. Flamethrower can be used over Fire Blast if you don't want to risk a miss, but the loss in power is very significant. Crunch is another option if you wish to hit Psychic- and Ghost-type Pokemon harder, but Outrage is strong enough, and Crunch's coverage is very narrow. Furthermore, a neutral Outrage is stronger than a 2x super effective Crunch.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As Salamence is very versatile, it doesn't have many counters. However, because Salamence shares the same typing as Rayquaza, they both have similar counters. The best way to take on Salamence is by forcing it to use Outrage, and then switch to a bulky Steel-type such as Skarmory, Bronzong, or Steel Arceus. Skarmory and Bronzong can Toxic Salamence; additionally, the former can Roost the damage off and phaze Salamence away with Whirlwind, and the latter can hit Salamence very hard with either Hidden Power Ice or Gyro Ball. Steel Arceus can burn Salamence with Will-O-Wisp, set up Calm Minds on it, and Recover the damage it has taken. Steel Arceus is also capable of phazing by using Roar, or it can limit Salamence's outrageous sweep by using Perish Song.</p> 

<p>Timid Lugia with maximum Speed EVs can outspeed a Salamence and OHKO with Ice Beam, but it risks being OHKOed by a +1 Stone Edge. The Great Wall Lugia, however, only has 28.21% chance of being OHKOed by +1 Stone Edge after Stealth Rock damage, making it a decent counter. In return, Lugia can phaze Salamence with Dragon Tail or Whirlwind, cripple it with Thunder Wave, or go for the kill with Ice Beam. Lugia can also heal itself with Recover or Roost. Cresselia falls in the same boat as Lugia; she can take a +1 Outrage, heal herself with Moonlight, and cripple Salamence with Thunder Wave or simply finish it off with Ice Beam. Groudon also makes a solid counter, as it only takes 64.85% maximum from a +1 Outrage, and from there either phaze with Dragon Tail, OHKO Salamence with Stone Edge after Stealth Rock damage, or cripple Salamence with Thunder Wave. Any bulky Arceus forme except Dragon Arceus can burn Salamence or phaze it; as mentioned, Steel Arceus is the best option.</p> 

<p>Choice Scarf Garchomp and Shaymin-S outspeed +1 Salamence and can OHKO with Outrage or Hidden Power Ice, respectively. Choice Scarf Palkia can also OHKO Salamence with Spacial Rend or Draco Meteor, but risks losing the Speed tie with +1 Salamence. Mamoswine and Weavile, though extremely rare, don't mind Salamence's Speed boost because their 4x super effective STAB Ice Shard will always strike first, bypassing Salamence's boosts. Salamence is weak to Stealth Rock; each switch-in strips it of 25% of its health, so if you can keep them on the field, Salamence will have a hard time setting up and sweeping. Moreover, Salamence's defenses aren't high, so priority moves from the likes of Scizor and Arceus will wear it down quickly.</p>