[Overview]

<p>Though Shedinja is generally considered weak, uncompetitive, and a gimmick, it can do extremely well in the Uber tier thanks to its wonderful ability Wonder Guard. Wonder Guard allows Shedinja to switch in against some of the biggest threats of the Uber metagame such as Kyogre, Bulk Up Dialga, some Arceus, most Palkia, non-Toxic Blissey, Latios, Latias, and some Mewtwo variants. Its STAB attacks are also welcome in Ubers due to the abundance of Psychic-types. However, Shedinja is weak to four common attacking types (Fire, Dark, Ghost, and Rock, as well as Flying) and vulnerable to entry hazards and status such as burn and poison. This means that using Shedinja requires a lot of support. Regardless of these drawbacks, Shedinja is still a menace that every competitive team should be aware of.</p>

[SET] 
name: Wall
move 1: X-Scissor
move 2: Shadow Sneak / Shadow Claw
move 3: Will-O-Wisp / Toxic
move 4: Protect / Heal Block / Baton Pass
item: Focus Sash / Lum Berry
nature: Lonely 
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe
ivs: 0 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Shedinja is often forgotten because people claim that there are better Pokemon to use. However, one must not ignore Shedinja's niche: walling a great deal of Pokemon in the Uber tier. X-Scissor is Shedinja's primary STAB move, dealing good damage against Mewtwo, Latios, Latias, some Deoxys, and Darkrai, to name a few. Shadow Sneak complements X-Scissor to 2HKO certain Pokemon. Shadow Claw can replace Shadow Sneak, but Shedinja will lose out on a valuable priority move. For example, X-Scissor followed by Shadow Sneak can 2HKO Mewtwo and Kingdra. Shadow Claw can still be used over Shadow Sneak, but Shedinja risks being outsped and hit with a super effective attack from these Pokemon. Will-O-Wisp cripples physical sweepers such as Salamence, Rayquaza, and Metagross, while Toxic is a slow death sentence to Wobbuffet, Blissey, Kingdra, and Kyogre. The last move is a choice between Protect, which allows Shedinja to scout for any dangerous moves the foe might happen to have (Hidden Power Fire Latios, for example); Heal Block, which is useful against opposing walls that can recover their health (for example Blissey, Lugia, RestTalk Calm Mind Giratina, and Giratina-O); and Baton Pass, which enables Shedinja to scout for possible switch-ins.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is the preferred item because it allows Shedinja to survive an attack that would otherwise kill it. However, Lum Berry is also viable as it prevents harmful status from KOing Shedinja, such as confusion, burn, poison, and Darkrai's Dark Void (Bad Dreams kills Shedinja). A Lonely nature in conjunction with 0 Defense IVs prevents Pokemon with the ability Download from getting a Special Attack boost.</p>

<p>Shedinja requires a lot of support to shine. Because entry hazards kill it, a good Rapid Spin user such as Forretress, which can also set up entry hazards to help Shedinja, can pair well with it. Sandstorm and the less common hail also spell doom for Shedinja. Kyogre makes a fantastic partner because it can eliminate these weather conditions thanks to Drizzle. In addition, Shedinja can switch into every Kyogre counter bar Zekrom (due to Teravolt) and Ferrothorn (because of Iron Barbs and Leech Seed). Kyogre can also counter Heatran, which walls this entire set. Safeguard is another option because, with it, Shedinja can switch into support Lugia without fearing Toxic. Some Pokemon that enjoy Shedinja's walling capacities, such as Groudon and Reshiram, also go well with it.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: X-Scissor
move 3: Shadow Sneak
move 4: Shadow Claw / Will-O-Wisp / Toxic
item: Focus Sash / Lum Berry
nature: Lonely 
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe
ivs: 0 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although using Shedinja as a sweeper might sound ridiculous, it has a niche that can make a Swords Dance set work thanks to its ability Wonder Guard. Because of Wonder Guard, Shedinja can often set up in front of Pokemon such as Kyogre, non-Hidden Power Fire Latios, Latias, and Kingdra. X-Scissor and Shadow Sneak are the main moves on this set, both getting STAB, having good coverage overall, and denting some threats after a Swords Dance including Kyogre, Choice Scarf Palkia, and Kingdra. Unfortunately, Shedinja's offensive movepool is very limited. Shadow Claw is another STAB attack, getting a stronger hit on Giratina (both formes), Rayquaza, and Lugia, while also having a high critical hit ratio. However, either Will-O-Wisp or Toxic can also be used here because Shedinja's movepool is barren.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Dig can also be used on this set, but this is an opportunity for the opponent to bring in something deadly such as Abomasnow, Tyranitar, or a Pursuit user. Shedinja gets walled by most Steel-types. Reshiram can destroy every Steel-type Pokemon in the game with Blue Flare (including Heatran, thanks to Turboblaze), making it a good partner to Shedinja, which can wall and kill the Kyogre, Latios, and Latias that make Reshiram shudder in fear. Shedinja also appreciates entry hazards, especially Stealth Rock and Spikes (Ho-Oh is OHKOed by +2 Shadow Claw after Stealth Rock damage). Forretress and Ferrothorn can lay both, making them good partners to Shedinja. Baton Pass users such as Mew and Vaporeon can also help Shedinja by passing it Substitute.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Shedinja's shallow movepool means that there aren't too many other options that it can use. Trick can be used alongside a Choice Band to cripple specially based Pokemon and walls. Sucker Punch is stronger than Shadow Sneak in some cases, but Shadow Sneak doesn't carry the risk of missing under normal circumstances. Shedinja could make good use of Baton Pass and Agility, but the two are illegal both together and with Swords Dance. Baton Pass can still be used with Hone Claws, but Mew outclasses Shedinja in this role because it can Baton Pass Swords Dance and Work Up. Spite can be used to PP stall some sweepers such as Calm Mind Kyogre and Bulk Up Dialga. Dig can hit some Steel-types, but they can switch to something that has Pursuit or something that can bring harmful weather.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Shedinja isn't as hard to kill as many people think. Here comes a list of everything that destroys it: Fire-, Ghost-, Dark-, Rock-, and Flying-type damage-dealing moves; residual damage from sandstorm, hail, Spikes, and Stealth Rock; status effects such as poison, burn, and confusion; Leech Seed; Ghost-type Curse; Struggle; Struggle recoil; Life Orb recoil; Black Sludge; Sticky Barb; Rough Skin and Iron Barbs; Mold Breaker and its variants (Turboblaze and Teravolt); Nightmare; and Bad Dreams.</p>

<p>Shedinja cannot deal with Haxorus, Zekrom, and Reshiram, as they ignore Wonder Guard due to Mold Breaker, Teravolt, and Turboblaze, respectively. However, Haxorus and Zekrom need to watch out for Will-O-Wisp when they switch in, and none of the three can stomach a boosted Shadow Claw. Ho-Oh can send Shedinja to hell with either Sacred Fire or Brave Bird, but like Reshiram, can't switch into a boosted Shadow Claw, especially if Stealth Rock is on the field. Blaziken, although hating boosted Ghost-type moves, can destroy Shedinja with a Fire-type STAB move or Stone Edge. Groudon doesn't like Toxic and Will-O-Wisp but can destroy Shedinja with Stone Edge, Fire Punch, or Overheat. An unexpected move from Shedinja's target such as Hidden Power Fire from Latios or Toxic from Kyogre easily KOes Shedinja. Heatran resists everything Shedinja has and can also grab a Flash Fire boost should Shedinja use Will-O-Wisp. Shedinja also falls against Pursuit users, especially ones that it can't damage well such as Scizor and Metagross. Ferrothorn, or any Pokemon holding Rocky Helmet, will eliminate Shedinja if it uses a contact move. Houndoom, although rare in Ubers, can finish off Shedinja with a combination of Sucker Punch and a Fire-type move. Other things that can revenge kill but cannot switch into Shedinja directly include Darkrai, Hydreigon, Tyranitar, and Shaymin-S. Chandelure and Mewtwo can take out Shedinja with a Ghost- or Fire-type move, but should be wary of Shadow Sneak and Shadow Claw (and X-Scissor in Mewtwo's case). Giratina has enough defenses to take a Shadow Sneak or Shadow Claw and then retaliate back with its own Shadow Sneak or Shadow Ball. The bottom line is that although Shedinja can be KOed many ways, it is a Pokemon to watch out for, as it can wall your entire team if you aren't prepared for it.</p>