[Overview]

<p>Many players instantly turn to Darkrai when looking for a fast Dark-type sweeper to use in Ubers, but teams carrying Groudon have another option they can consider. Shiftry isn't powerful by Uber standards, but it has Chlorophyll, which is a great ability in Ubers, as well as an excellent offensive typing for the metagame. Though it can augment its sub par Special Attack through Nasty Plot, due to its frailty it needs to select when it goes for the boost very carefully. Shiftry needs the support of its teammates to work well, but it can certainly pay off when played correctly.</p> 

[SET]
name: Special Sweeper
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Grass Knot
move 3: Dark Pulse
move 4: Focus Blast / Hidden Power Fire
item: Life Orb
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Shiftry is a very capable late game cleaner, capable of finishing off the opponent's team if it has been weakened significantly. Nasty Plot makes walling Shiftry very difficult. Due to Shiftry's frailty, however, it can only boost up when an opponent is expected to switch, or against a weak resisted move, such as Ferrothorn's Power Whip. Grass Knot hits for 120 Base Power against many Uber Pokemon, most notably against Kyogre, one of the biggest threats to dedicated sun teams. Dark Pulse hits a fair number of Uber Pokemon for super effective damage, the most prominent being Mewtwo and Giratina-O. The chance to flinch can also come in handy given Shiftry's high Speed stat in the sun. Focus Blast provides valuable coverage against Ferrothorn, Dialga, and Arceus, but Hidden Power Fire nails Ferrothorn and Scizor while lacking the drawback of shaky accuracy.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Life Orb and a Modest nature are necessary, since Shiftry needs every bit of power that it can get. Because Shiftry outspeeds so many Choice Scarf Pokemon in the sun, such as Palkia, Torment is an interesting choice. With it, Shiftry can come in on a choice-locked Pokemon, use Torment, and grab a Nasty Plot boost as the opponent is forced to use Struggle. Ho-Oh is one of the biggest threats to Shiftry, so Hidden Power Rock can be considered to help deal with it. Likewise, Hidden Power Ice can be used to OHKO Rayquaza and hit Zekrom a bit harder. Shiftry can also opt to use Low Kick, a Naive Nature, and run Growth over Nasty Plot so that it has a better shot at breaking through Chansey or Blissey.</p>

<p>It cannot be stressed enough that Shiftry must be supported by Groudon. Without Drought, Shiftry becomes essentially useless. Though it can work on any team that has a Groudon, Shiftry fits best on dedicated sun teams. Ho-Oh is a common fixture on these kinds of teams, and it covers Shiftry's weaknesses well. Entry hazard support is also essential to Shiftry's sweep, so Pokemon that can reliably provide Spikes, such as Forretress and Ferrothorn, are greatly appreciated. Groudon itself can provide Stealth Rock. Dual screen support helps to compensate for Shiftry's frailty and makes it easier for it to set up. Deoxys-S can set up both screens, and can also use Spikes to further support Shiftry.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>Shiftry has higher base Attack than Special Attack, but Seed Bomb is a far weaker STAB move than Grass Knot, and Sucker Punch, while better than Dark Pulse in some cases, has some drawbacks. ExtremeSpeed, a common move in Ubers, bypasses Sucker Punch with its +2 priority and usually OHKOes the frail Shiftry. Sucker Punch also leaves Shiftry unable to touch certain walls, such as Giratina, who can burn Shiftry with Will-O-Wisp without fear. Leaf Storm is a slightly more powerful STAB move than Grass Knot, and can be used on a 4-attacks set. Icy Wind decreases the opponent's Speed, but, unlike Hidden Power Ice, requires Stealth Rock to be up in order to OHKO Rayquaza. Tailwind doubles Shiftry's Speed, as well as that of its teammates, but Shiftry might as well use Nasty Plot if it has a turn to use Tailwind.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ho-Oh is the biggest counter to this set due to its insane special bulk and STAB Sacred Fire. Kyogre robs Shiftry of its precious sunlight with Drizzle, and a Choice Scarf set can outspeed and OHKO Shiftry. Chansey and Blissey both wall Shiftry effortlessly, and neither are even OHKOed by a +2 Low Kick. Priority also makes short work of Shiftry. Arceus and Rayquaza can massacre Shiftry with ExtremeSpeed, and the latter even outspeeds Shiftry due to Air Lock. Scizor can pick Shiftry off with Bullet Punch and only fears Hidden Power Fire. More niche priority users, such Ice Shard Mamoswine and Vacuum Wave Toxicroak, also get the job done. Shiftry is not blisteringly fast in the sun either. Very fast Choice Scarf Pokemon, such as Terrakion, Darkrai, and Shaymin-S, can all outspeed and revenge kill it. Blaziken easily threatens Shiftry and doesn't take too much damage from any of Shiftry's moves bar Focus Blast. It can also outspeed Shiftry after two turns thanks to Speed Boost.</p>