[Overview]

<p>When looking at Tornadus-T's generally disappointing base stats, one may question why it deserves to be used in the Uber tier. Its Special Attack stat is mediocre at best, lower than every other specially offensive Pokemon in the Uber tier, forcing it to use Choice Specs or Life Orb to gain sufficient power to threaten its foes. To make matters worse, its most powerful STAB move, Hurricane, is largely useless and unreliable outside of rain. On top of this, its Flying typing and underwhelming defenses make killing it easy. So how does Tornadus-T manage to be useful in the Uber tier, threatening both stall and offensive teams alike? The answer is simple: Regenerator.</p>

<p>Because of Regenerator and an immunity to Spikes, Tornadus-T is the only Pokemon viable in Ubers that regains all HP it lost from entry hazards when switching out of battle. When combined with its high base 121 Speed, which allows it to outspeed Arceus, and its access to Taunt, you have a Pokemon that can break stall at any time of the match, regardless of circumstances. These boons don't make up for all of Tornadus-T's shortcomings, and it faces immense competition as a stallbreaker from Shaymin-S who boasts more Speed and Special Attack, Serene Grace Air Slash, and Leech Seed at the price of Regenerator and Hurricane. However, support it well, use it to its strengths, and you will have a monster on your hands.</p>

[SET]
name: Life Orb Attacker
move 1: Hurricane
move 2: Focus Blast / Superpower
move 3: Grass Knot / U-turn
move 4: Taunt
item: Life Orb
nature: Timid / Naive
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Tornadus-T's ability to heal all damage from entry hazards simply by switching out, coupled with its ability to release strong Hurricanes, makes it a huge threat to stall teams. Combine this with the ability to prevent the enemy from healing by using Taunt, and you get one of the scariest stallbreakers in the Uber tier. To put icing on the cake, Tornadus-T can combine Regenerator with Life Orb to essentially get a free power boost on all its attacks, as Regenerator will heal Life Orb damage.</p>

<p>Hurricane is a strong STAB that allows Tornadus-T to dent all walls not named Chansey in the rain as long as they don't resist it. Superpower pairs well with Hurricane coverage-wise, obliterating Blissey and Tyranitar, and when used in conjunction with Taunt, it allows Tornadus-T to remove Chansey from the game. Focus Blast, while it has lower accuracy, lets Tornadus-T hit everything else harder and allows it to OHKO Ferrothorn after it has taken damage from a Hurricane. Grass Knot deals immense damage to Groudon, 2HKOing even the most specially defensive variant. Alternatively, U-turn allows Tornadus-T to take advantage of Regenerator and all the double switches it forces. U-turn also allows Tornadus-T to beat all Latias that run less then 244 HP EVs and try to switch into its Hurricane after taking damage from Stealth Rock. Lastly, Taunt prevents enemy walls from recovering any HP, and also gives Tornadus-T the ability to beat any Giratina lacking Dragon Tail.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Tornadus-T excels at breaking stall and weakening walls, so sweepers, particularly those that enjoy the removal of Grass Arceus, are great partners for it. Since Tornadus-T already requires Kyogre to boost the accuracy of Hurricane, partners with Swift Swim, such as Kingdra, Kabutops, and Omastar, are welcome. These Pokemon can take advantage of a weakened Giratina and Grass Arceus and proceed to sweep the other team. Zekrom deserves a special mention as it can completely eliminate Pokemon Tornadus-T has trouble killing, such as Giratina, Lugia, and Ho-Oh, while also combining its Volt Switch with Tornadus-T's U-turn to form a VoltTurn chain and keep up momentum.</p>

<p>Tornadus-T's ability to force double switches when used in tandem with entry hazards can result in a massive amount of residual damage. Because of this, partners that can supply Tornadus-T with entry hazards are welcome. Deoxys-S in particular can guarantee at least one layer of Spikes and Stealth Rock while preventing the loss of momentum due to its high Speed.</p>

<p>Tornadus-T's niche is stallbreaking for a team that has trouble dealing with hazards and cannot provide Toxic Spikes support. If you are able to fit a Pokemon with Rapid Spin on your team and can provide Toxic Spikes support then you may be using an inferior Shaymin-S. In this case, all Tornadus-T boasts over Shaymin-S is Hurricane, Heat Wave, and Taunt. In contrast, Shaymin-S boasts higher Special Attack and Speed as well as a non-weather reliant STAB in the form of Serene Grace Air Slash—which can act as both a Taunt and a STAB move stronger then Hurricane if it successfully flinches an opponent.</p>

<p>Aside from the moves listed on the main set, Tornadus-T can successfully utilize Heat Wave and Hidden Power Ice. The former can wipe out Ferrothorn and Forretress if it isn't raining while the latter easily eliminates Rayquaza. It should be noted, though, that Tornadus-T will find it difficult to use these moves. Forgoing Taunt means that Tornadus-T can no longer beat Giratina without Dragon Tail or prevent other Pokemon from recovering HP. Losing Hurricane means giving up Tornadus-T's strongest STAB while getting rid of Superpower and Focus Blast makes it lose against Tyranitar, Dialga, Chansey, and Blissey. In reality, the only moves Heat Wave and Hidden Power Ice can be effectively used over are Grass Knot and U-turn. However, be aware that without these moves Tornadus-T can no longer create a VoltTurn chain with Zekrom or prevent Groudon from switching into it and removing its rain.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Hurricane
move 2: Focus Blast
move 3: Heat Wave
move 4: U-turn / Hidden Power Ice / Air Slash
item: Choice Specs
nature: Timid / Naive
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set attempts to increase Tornadus-T's offensive capabilities so that it can more easily break down walls on stall teams. Unlike most Choice item users, thanks to its effective immunity to hazards, Tornadus-T can switch in and out as it pleases, without having to worry about the recoil from hazard damage stacking. Unfortunately, Tornadus-T's Special Attack is less than impressive; when boosted by Choice Specs, it is still 4 points lower than that of Kyurem-W's unboosted stat.</p>

<p>Hurricane is Tornadus-T's strongest STAB move and 2HKOes practically everything that doesn't resist it or have high Special Defense investment. Focus Blast provides necessary coverage, 2HKOing support Dialga and OHKOing Tyranitar with Spikes and a layer of Stealth Rock in the sand. Heat Wave allows Tornadus-T to OHKO Ferrothorn and Forretress in all weathers other than rain. The last moveslot is based on your team's needs. U-turn allows Tornadus-T to scout what will come in and take advantage of Regenerator. Hidden Power Ice allows Tornadus-T to more reliably OHKO Rayquaza, who would otherwise threaten Tornadus-T thanks to Air Lock lowering Hurricane's accuracy and its resistances to Heat Wave and Focus Blast. Lastly, Air Slash serves as a more reliable, albeit weaker, STAB move that Tornadus-T can use in non-rainy weather.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Rain is mandatory for all Tornadus-T, and this set is no exception. Kyogre is crucial for Tornadus-T's success as it increases the accuracy of Hurricane, allowing Tornadus-T to spam the move without much of a worry. Tornadus-T also appreciates Swift Swim partners who can clean up after its work is done. Kabutops, Kingdra, Omastar, and Ludicolo can all sweep an opposing team after Tornadus-T has dealt heavy damage to the enemy's walls with its Choice Specs-boosted, STAB Hurricanes.</p>

<p>Tornadus-T appreciates assistance from Pokemon that can get past Chansey, Lugia, Ho-Oh, specially defensive Latias, and Giratina, as all five avoid being 2HKOed by Choice Specs Hurricane. Zekrom perfectly fits Tornadus-T's needs, OHKOing all five of the aforementioned Pokemon with the combination of STAB Bolt Strike and STAB Outrage. To add to that, Zekrom also gets Volt Switch, meaning it can form a VoltTurn core with Tornadus-T, helping their team get free switches and keep momentum. It's a general rule that all VoltTurn cores appreciate entry hazards, and this core is no exception. Pokemon that excel at laying hazards on the field, particularly Deoxys-S and Deoxys-A, are great partners for it. Deoxys-S and Deoxys-A can ensure that both a layer of Spikes and Stealth Rock are on the field while preventing any momentum loss with their high offensive capabilities and their nearly unmatched Speed.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Tornadus-T has a few alternate moves that it could use on certain sets but often can't find a spot for. Substitute allows Tornadus-T to take advantage of double switches and Toxic Spikes, as well as preventing status, but it generally can't find a spot for it, and Shaymin-S can generally utilize Substitute better thanks to its access to Leech Seed. Grass Knot can be used on the Choice Specs set to OHKO Groudon and deal massive damage to Tyranitar and Hippowdon, but Tornadus-T again struggles to find a spot for it as the other moves on the set all serve important roles. Hammer Arm is a worse Superpower since it lowers one of Tornadus-T's strong points, its Speed, but it can be used if you dislike Superpower's Attack drops. Rain Dance can be used in the third slot of the Life Orb set, as it allows Tornadus-T to continue spamming Hurricanes even after Tyranitar and Groudon come in, but most of the time it's better off crippling them with Grass Knot. Lastly, Hidden Power Fire is a more accurate alternative to Heat Wave, but it forces a drop in Tornadus-T's Speed that prevents it from Speed tying with other Tornadus-T.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Countering and revenge killing Tornadus-T is difficult. Its access to Regenerator allows it to fearlessly switch away from any Pokemon that tries to revenge it and come back later to continue to release powerful Hurricanes. Because of this, even the bulkiest revenge killers can get worn down if they continuously switch into moves fired off by Tornadus-T.</p>

<p>Tornadus-T, however, is relatively easy to wall. Specially defensive Giratina, standard Ho-Oh, and Great Wall Lugia avoid getting 2HKOed by every attack Tornadus-T can throw at them if Stealth Rock is not up. Giratina and Lugia can then Dragon Tail Tornadus-T out, regardless of whether or not it packs Taunt, while Ho-Oh can Brave Bird Tornadus-T to its doom. Latias can also check all Tornadus-T, as it is able to avoid being 2HKOed by any of its moves with a defensive spread of 252 HP EVs and 40 Special Defense EVs, but beware as it takes heavy damage from U-turn.</p>

<p>If you lack a Lugia, Ho-Oh, Latias, or Giratina, you can try to figure out what set Tornadus-T's using and then deduce what moves it is running. If Tornadus-T is not running Superpower, Chansey can switch into Tornadus-T and absorb all of its attacks, retaliating with a 4HKO from Seismic Toss. Beware, though, as Taunt will prevent Chansey from using Softboiled and Regenerator allows Tornadus-T to recover the damage it takes from a single Seismic Toss. If Tornadus-T lacks Heat Wave or is in the rain and lacks Taunt, Jirachi and Skarmory can switch into and inflict status upon Tornadus-T.</p>

<p>If you lack these Pokemon as well, then you might as well try to have a Pokemon that can tank a hit and kill it. Electric Arceus, Steel Arceus, and Zekrom can switch into Tornadus-T and strike it down with their Judgments and Bolt Strikes, respectively. Beware, though, as Steel Arceus in particular will take huge amounts of damage from Choice Specs Focus Blasts and sun-boosted Heat Waves.</p>

<p>If all else fails, then you can resort to revenge killing Tornadus-T, but be aware that Tornadus-T can always switch out from whatever Pokemon you try to use. Virtually every Pokemon whose Speed is boosted by a Choice Scarf, Swift Swim, Chlorophyll, or Sand Rush, and anything with a priority move will be able to KO Tornadus-T with a STAB move before it can move. Zekrom deserves a second mention at its ability to revenge kill Tornadus-T. It can use Volt Switch to either scout what Pokemon Tornadus-T may try to switch into or kill Tornadus-T should it decide to stay in.</p>