[Overview]

<p>As it frequently tops the OU usage lists, it is inconceivable that Tyranitar has not considered taking over the forbidden land of Ubers as well. Indeed, while the bipartisan dictatorship of Groudon and Kyogre persecute other weather effects from coming into play, the sand tyrant stands defiant, ready to introduce sandstorm to the world of Mount Olympus. Its ability, Sand Stream, allows Tyranitar to become an extremely sturdy special tank in the Uber metagame, a tier full of special attackers. It isn't indestructible by any means, however, as Tyranitar sports nasty weaknesses to the ubiquitous Aura Sphere and Earthquake. Overall, Tyranitar is an extremely versatile Pokemon, and every team that dreams of being successful should have an answer to the dinosaur.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Crunch / Payback
move 2: Pursuit
move 3: Low Kick / Superpower
move 4: Fire Blast / Stealth Rock / Stone Edge
item: Leftovers / Lum Berry
nature: Sassy / Careful
evs: 252 HP / 76 Atk / 180 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With the boost from sandstorm, Tyranitar's Special Defense is lifted to an enormous 463, and coupled with its impressive 404 HP, this allows it to weather even the mightiest of special attacks in the Uber metagame. These include Dialga's unboosted Draco Meteor, Palkia's Spacial Rend, Reshiram's Blue Flare, and so on. Unlike special walls such as Blissey and Chansey, Tyranitar can pack a punch with its attacks instead of relying on status and Seismic Toss. Using Crunch and Pursuit, Tyranitar can checkmate Giratina-O, allowing Rapid Spin to be used much more easily. It also checks unboosted Mewtwo, as it can survive a Life Orb-boosted Aura Sphere while dealing heavy damage back with STAB Crunch. It can Pursuit Choice Scarf Palkia locked into any attack apart from Surf, Pursuit Reshiram locked into a Fire-type attack, and Pursuit Kyogre locked into any non-Water-type attack, while also taking out Dialga with Low Kick. Tyranitar's chosen Dark-type STAB and Pursuit allow it to checkmate many threats, while Low Kick gives it fantastic coverage. Crunch is generally preferred as it allows Tyranitar to deal consistent damage to Dragon Tail Giratina-O, who would otherwise make Payback a 50 Base Power move.</p>

<p>The last move is a toss-up between Fire Blast, Stealth Rock, and Stone Edge. Fire Blast allows Tyranitar to fry Ferrothorn and Forretress, who might try switching in to set up hazards, and keeps Scizor away. Stealth Rock can be used if the team requires Tyranitar to set it up, while Stone Edge allows Tyranitar to fully counter Ho-Oh, as it deals heavy damage to the phoenix even when Tyranitar has been burned by Sacred Fire.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>This set can also be used as a lead. With Tyranitar's horrible Speed, it is almost guaranteed that you will have sandstorm up unless your opponent decides to run Abomasnow, or something ridiculous like Iron Ball Kyogre. If Tyranitar is used as a lead, Superpower and Lum Berry can be considered as the Fighting-type move of choice and the item, respectively. This allows Tyranitar to take on anything Darkrai might throw at it, avoid being put to sleep by Dark Void and OHKO with Superpower (Focus Blast does not OHKO Tyranitar).</p>

<p>Tyranitar has a few other moves it can run in the last slot, although their applications are not quite as useful as those listed. Ice Beam can be used so Garchomp does not get a free switch-in or a free setup; it also deals huge amounts of damage to Gliscor, who would otherwise be a nuisance to sand teams in general. Dragon Tail can also be used with hazard support, as Tyranitar is very good at forcing switches anyway.</p>

<p>The given EV spread allows Tyranitar to weather two Surfs from defensive Kyogre, meaning it can even switch into the leviathan and set up the sand, then switch out with the weather on its side. A Sassy nature is preferred if Tyranitar is using Fire Blast or Ice Beam, but Careful is preferred if it is not.</p>

<p>Groudon is Tyranitar's biggest enemy, as it completely walls the sand tyrant, while wiping away the sandstorm with its ability, Drought. It takes little damage from anything Tyranitar uses and OHKOes with Earthquake. Fighting Arceus, Ground Arceus, and Garchomp are next in the long line of Tyranitar counters. Kyogre can switch in and introduce rain while drowning Tyranitar with its overpowered Water-type STAB. Water, Bug, Steel, and Grass Arceus also scare the pants off Tyranitar. Terrakion can come into any attack not named Low Kick or Superpower and OHKO with Close Combat, even receiving a Justified boost from Tyranitar's STAB Dark-type attacks. Heracross can do a similar job, but will not enjoy switching into Fire Blast. If Tyranitar lacks Fire Blast, Scizor can also switch in and deal massive damage with U-turn.</p>

<p>Tyranitar's teammates, naturally, would fit into two categories: Pokemon that fit into the first category include those that can switch into Tyranitar's weaknesses or check the long line of counters just listed, while the second include Pokemon that can take advantage of Tyranitar's infinite sandstorm. Lugia and Giratina have excellent defensive synergy with Tyranitar; the former is 4x resistant to Fighting-type attacks, resists Grass-type moves, and also has a handy Ground-type immunity, while Giratina is immune to Fighting-type attacks and packs Bug-, Water-, and Grass-type resistances. Both have massive defenses to shrug off unboosted attacks as well. Palkia is 4x resistant to Water-type attacks, while Grass Arceus and Latias can also switch into them without much hassle either. If sandstorm is not central to your game plan, Kyogre is an excellent teammate to Tyranitar, as it can also switch into unboosted Water-type attacks while scaring away a lot of Tyranitar's checks, such as Scizor and Groudon. In return, Tyranitar can chase down fleeing Palkia locked into Thunder, doing enough damage so that it cannot switch into Kyogre any more. Sand abusers include Pokemon such as Excadrill, who outspeeds virtually everything in the sand, Rock Arceus, who becomes a nigh-unkillable tank, Garchomp, whose Sand Veil ability causes opponents to rip their hair out, and Landorus, who can use its Sand Force ability to decimate teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Crunch / Payback
move 2: Pursuit
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Low Kick
item: Choice Band
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 64 Atk / 192 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Tyranitar's high base 134 Attack and enormous Special Defense make it an excellent Choice Band user in the Uber environment. It can easily switch into many special attackers in the tier who are locked into unfavourable attacks and deal massive damage to them with Pursuit as they switch out. Such Pokemon include Choice Scarf Palkia locked into any attack apart from Surf, Giratina-O, and Reshiram locked into a Fire-type move. With these Pokemon removed, other Pokemon such as Kyogre can sweep a lot more easily. Crunch is Tyranitar's main STAB, although Payback is another option, since Tyranitar is slow. Payback will be weak against phazers such as Lugia and Giratina-O, though. Crunch's chance to lower Defense also allows Tyranitar to come out on top in certain situations. If you are lucky with the Defense drops, Tyranitar could potentially defeat Lugia one-on-one. Stone Edge is Tyranitar's most powerful attack, doing huge damage to anything that doesn't resist it. Low Kick rounds out the set, providing good coverage against Steel-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs used give Tyranitar a high chance of surviving any unboosted Aura Sphere from Mewtwo and OHKOing back with Crunch. Max Attack can be used so Tyranitar can OHKO Scizor with Stone Edge after Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes, but this is not recommended as the bulk lost is considerable.</p>

<p>Like the first set, Groudon walls Tyranitar, taking a measly 26.98% - 31.93% from Crunch. It removes the sand that Tyranitar provides for its team and OHKOes with Earthquake. Fighting Arceus resists both of Tyranitar's STABs and OHKOes with Judgment. Ground Arceus serves a similar purpose to Groudon, and walls Tyranitar even harder with access to Recover. Garchomp can switch in without much problem too. Steel Arceus and Dialga resist both of Tyranitar's STABs, but must watch out for Low Kick. Other Arceus formes with super effective STAB can take down Tyranitar pretty easily too. Bulky Kyogre can switch into Tyranitar once, wipe out sandstorm, and deal massive damage with its rain-boosted STAB. It is for these reasons that Pokemon that cover Tyranitar's weaknesses are good teammates. Lugia and Giratina resist most of Tyranitar's weaknesses. Grass Arceus, Palkia, and Latias can switch into most of Kyogre's attacks without much trouble, although its coverage moves will wear them down very quickly. Abusers of sandstorm are also great teammates to run alongside Tyranitar, and these include Excadrill, Rock Arceus, Garchomp, and Landorus.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Rock Slide is a more reliable option over Stone Edge, but it is way too weak to do anything useful. Dragon Dance and Rock Polish can be used to improve Tyranitar's horrible Speed, but it would still be too slow after one boost, while it will find itself being walled way too easily. Thunder Wave can be used to cripple an Arceus forme or two, but since Tyranitar's main counter, Groudon, is immune to it, it is quite useless. Toxic can be used to cripple Groudon. Dragon Tail or Roar can be used on the tank set in conjunction with entry hazards for some decent results. Curse can be used to boost Tyranitar's Defense, giving it excellent mixed bulk, but Groudon and other counters can KO Tyranitar faster than it can boost.</p>

<p>Tyranitar has the option of running a mixed suicide lead set, using a Hasty nature, max Speed, max Special Attack, and Ice Beam to deal heavy damage to Groudon. A Focus Sash or Air Balloon can be used to dodge an OHKO from Earthquake. This set is most effective when sandstorm is not central to the team's overall strategy. A combination of Focus Sash and Counter can also be used to surprise Groudon, but it is generally unreliable.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Groudon completely walls Tyranitar, removes the sandstorm, and OHKOes with Earthquake or forces it out with Dragon Tail. Ground Arceus fulfills a similar role, while Fighting Arceus resists both STABs and OHKOes with 4x super effective Judgment. Steel Arceus also resists both STABs, but will not enjoying taking Low Kick. Garchomp and Gliscor can both switch into anything apart from the occasional Ice Beam and deal heavy damage with Earthquake. Kyogre can take an attack from Choice Band Tyranitar (albeit not very well) and deal huge amounts of damage with its rain-boosted STAB attacks. Terrakion and Lucario both enjoy switching into Tyranitar's Dark-type STAB for a Justified boost, although both need to watch out for Superpower, and in Lucario's case, Fire Blast. Heracross can also can switch into anything barring Choice Band Stone Edge and Fire Blast. All three of the Fighting-types listed above can OHKO with Close Combat. Similar to Heracross, Scizor only needs to watch out Fire Blast and needs to tread carefully around Choice Band-boosted Stone Edge, and it can OHKO in return with Superpower or deal huge amounts of damage with U-turn or Bullet Punch.</p>