[Overview]

<p>Victreebel looks like an oddball in such a vicious metagame, but it has its advantages over Venusaur; it retains access to Chlorophyll and Sleep Powder, but also has access to Weather Ball, which eliminates the need for Hidden Power Fire. This allows Victreebel to run Hidden Power Rock or Ice if desired. As a result, Victreebel can hold a place on sun teams as an alternative for Venusaur. However, Victreebel struggles a bit in this metagame; Victreebel is ridiculously fragile and really cannot take a hit. Priority users such Extreme Killer Arceus and Scizor can take it out relatively quickly. The only thing Victreebel has going for it defensively is the ability to absorb Toxic Spikes. Despite these flaws, Victreebel has some notable perks as a Chlorophyll user, making it a worthy competitor in Ubers.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Sleep Powder
move 2: Grass Knot
move 3: Weather Ball
move 3: Hidden Power Rock / Hidden Power Ice
item: Life Orb
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Victreebel's best set with the big boys in Ubers. A base 100 Special Attack looks impossible to work with in a metagame with such unimaginable power, but it hits harder than you think. With access to Sleep Powder, Victreebel can incapacitate a check, such as Kyogre or Latias, for most of or the entire match. Grass Knot is Victreebel's STAB, hitting the vast number of heavy Pokemon in the metagame hard. Weather Ball nails Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Forretress, while dealing respectable damage to Dialga, 2HKOing offensive variants. Hidden Power Rock hits Ho-Oh hard, KOing it after Stealth Rock. However, Hidden Power Ice deals more damage to Rayquaza, Zekrom, and Giratina-O, which would otherwise be troublesome to Victreebel.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Modest nature can be used for more power, but then Choice Scarf users, such as Genesect, Terrakion, and Palkia, will outspeed Victreebel. Growth can be used to power up Victreebel, but it is incredibly hard to set up, and the ability to run three attacks is Victreebel's advantage over Venusaur. However, Sleep Powder can secure a free turn to set up a Growth. Sludge Bomb does not hit too many things super effectively, but it is a secondary STAB that has good neutral coverage with Grass Knot and Weather Ball.</p>

<p>This set obviously needs sun support from Groudon; Victreebel also appreciates it laying down Stealth Rock to wear down the opponent. Victreebel also likes Spikes support to bring the opponent down into KO range, so Deoxys-A and Deoxys-S are good partners. Rayquaza can easily revenge kill Victreebel, so Pokemon that check Rayquaza, like Choice Scarf Genesect, bulky Arceus, and Heatran, are good teammates. Palkia and Latias are also good teammates for Victreebel, as they can take care of Kyogre, another major check to Victreebel, as it removes Victreebel's precious sun. Victreebel has problems with specially bulky Pokemon, such as the Lati twins, Chansey, and the Giratina formes. Ho-Oh is great for taking out the Pokemon that wall Victreebel, as it is immune to burns and does not mind being phazed out thanks to Regenerator. Ho-Oh can also dispatch Scizor, which is quite troublesome with its Technician-boosted STAB Bullet Punch.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Victreebel has some tricks in its giant gut that have not been mentioned. A mixed set consisting of Growth / Grass Knot / Weather Ball / Sucker Punch can be used to beat the Lati twins easier, but Victreebel is fast enough so that it is does not really need the priority Sucker Punch offers, and it is not very reliable as a coverage move. A Swords Dance set can be used with Power Whip and Sucker Punch, but its reliance on Sucker Punch for coverage can render it inefficient. Giga Drain and SolarBeam can be used for alternative Grass-type STABs, but Grass Knot is a better choice for Victreebel; SolarBeam is not very reliable in a metagame filled with Kyogre and Tyranitar, and Giga Drain is not strong enough on such a weak Pokemon. Stun Spore can be used to paralyze threats, such as Shaymin-S and Kyogre, but Victreebel is so fragile, that it should really leave spreading paralysis to bulkier Pokemon, such Kyogre and Jirachi. Finally, Encore can lock an opponent into an undesirable move for 3 turns, but Sleep Powder is generally the better option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It is not that hard to defeat Victreebel as long as you avoid Sleep Powder. It also lacks a bit of power and cannot OHKO or 2HKO too many Pokemon. Giratina and Giratina-O are the best counters to Victreebel; they resist Grass Knot and Weather Ball and can use RestTalk to make the most out of being asleep. Giratina-A also tends to use Magic Coat, which can ruin Victreebel. Choice Scarf Zekrom can utilize Sleep Talk and KO Victreebel with Outrage or Dragon Claw. Choice variants of Ho-Oh also tend to carry Sleep Talk, but dislike Hidden Power Rock. There are also many specially bulky Pokemon, aside from the Giratina formes, that can wall or handle Victreebel, such as Lugia, Chansey, Blissey, Lugia, Deoxys-D, Heatran, Manaphy, the Lati twins, Arceus-Dragon, and some other specially bulky Arceus, though they must be careful about switching into a Sleep Powder. Tentacruel needs Ice Beam or a Scald burn to do much to Victreebel, but it is 4HKOed by Grass Knot, making it a decent check. Defensive Dialga can cause Victreebel some problems, but the offensive variants are 2HKOed by Weather Ball. Espeon and Xatu will not appreciate switching into Weather Ball, but the right prediction can put Victreebel to sleep due to Magic Bounce.</p>

<p>Victreebel also has a huge slew of offensive checks due to how fragile and weak it is. Priority users, such as Arceus, Deoxys-A, and Giratina, can easily revenge kill it. Rayquaza hates Hidden Power Ice, Hidden Power Rock, and Sleep Powder, but it can outspeed and KO Victreebel courtesy of Air Lock. Choice Scarf Mewtwo outspeeds Victreebel and can KO it with Psystrike; this also applies to Choice Scarf Shaymin-S with Air Slash.</p>

<p>Taking away Victreebel's beloved sun can easily cripple it. Kyogre can replace the sun with rain, but it must watch for Grass Knot; the same thing applies to Hippowdon and Tyranitar, which can both summon a sandstorm. Thundurus can only switch in on Grass Knot, but it has priority Thunder Wave to essentially cripple Victreebel. Victreebel is also very weak, and relies on having its counters asleep to take them out, so keep those two things in mind while teambuilding and it should not be a problem.</p>