[Overview]

<p>Say hello to what is arguably the best annoyer and disruptor in the game. With its plethora of non-attacking moves, and a devious ability in Prankster that provides said moves with priority, Whimsicott takes the infamous SubSeed strategy to a whole new level. As Whimsicott learns Encore, it can be used as a last-resort check to many sweepers by locking them into a move. Whimsicott also receives Taunt, allowing it to hamper many defensive Pokemon. In addition, Whimsicott has great synergy with defensive rain cores, as it prevents set-up sweepers from running straight through the team, while defensive teams can cover Whimsicott’s weaknesses quite well. Despite these excellent perks, not all is sunshine for Whimsicott. Not only is Whimsicott neutralized by Grass-types, Rapid Spin users, and Pokemon with the Magic Bounce ability, it faces fierce competition from Shaymin-S and Jumpluff. The former boasts a much more formidable offensive presence, while the latter has access to Sleep Powder. Nevertheless, priority on all of its main moves, lack of a Stealth Rock weakness, and ability to function outside of sun are a few of many reasons to choose Whimsicott. With adequate support and good prediction, it will drain its victims dry of their HP.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSeed
move 1: Leech Seed
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Encore
move 4: Taunt
item: Leftovers
ability: Prankster
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Prankster, Whimsicott is possibly the best SubSeeder in the game. The combination of Leech Seed and Substitute is completely self-explanatory, and is what makes Whimsicott so fearsome. Whimsicott's priority Encore allows it to switch into a sweeper's setup move, lock them into said Swords Dance, Dragon Dance, or Calm Mind, and commence the SubSeed strategy. Taunt allows Whimsicott to set up on defensive Pokemon such as Blissey and Chansey with little fear, unless the former is packing Ice Beam or Flamethrower. It also prevents Ferrothorn, Tentacruel, and Forretress from setting up layers and layers of entry hazards every time Whimsicott comes in. Should you misplay and allow a dangerous sweeper to set up, Whimsicott can act as an emergency stop by locking the opposing Pokemon into a single move with Encore. Just keep in mind that ExtremeSpeed has +2 priority this generation, meaning Whimsicott cannot stop Swords Dance Rayquaza or Extreme Killer Arceus.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs provide maximum Special Defense to help Whimsicott tank an occasional hit, and prevents defensive variants of Kyogre from breaking Whimisicott's Substitute with Scald. An alternate EV spread of 4 HP / 252 Def / 252 SpD can be used as well, as it provides better Defense, and restores a larger percentage of HP with Leech Seed. Taunt is important to prevent Spikers such as Ferrothorn and Forretress from freely littering your field with Spikes; however, Hidden Power Fire can be used instead to incinerate them. Sun support is required though, as Hidden Power Fire does laughable damage in the rain.</p>

<p>Whimsicott generally functions best when backed by passive damage from stall teams. Tentacruel synergizes very well with Whimsicott, as it can set up and absorb Toxic Spikes, both of which help Whimsicott substantially. Forretress also helps Whimsicott, as it can set up all forms of entry hazards and provides Rapid Spin support. However, this isn't the best way to remove Toxic Spikes. Poison Arceus is another helpful teammate as it can also reliably absorb Toxic Spikes, which render Whimsicott quite useless otherwise, while also being able to hammer Ferrothorn with Fire Blast. As Whimsicott is quite dependent on entry hazards support to reach its full potential, having a spinblocker can be very beneficial. Giratina, Giratina-O, and Ghost Arceus are all capable spinblockers, while the former can patch any weakness to Extreme Killer Arceus that Whimsicott can create. Blissey and Chansey are also helpful teammates as they can pass large Wishes to Whimsicott, while being able to take powerful special attacks aimed at Whimsicott. Grass-types, Pokemon with Magic Bounce, and Rapid Spin users all wall Whimsicott quite easily, so having a way to deal with them is recommended. Ho-Oh can destroy Grass-types with its powerful STAB attacks, while also being able to set up on Forretress and Tentacruel in the sun. A Pursuit user, such as Tyranitar, can make quick work of Xatu, thus allowing Whimsicott to SubSeed freely.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Whimsicott has plenty of other options it can play with and attempt to abuse. The combination of Light Screen, Tailwind, and Memento can provide some interesting team support for Pokemon such as Swords Dance Groudon; however, Tailwind's short three-turn span means it can easily be outstalled, and Latios is generally better at utilizing dual screens + Memento. Whimsicott has lots of status moves in its arsenal as well, such as Toxic, Stun Spore, and GrassWhistle, but there are many better Pokemon to use these moves, and the latter two are inaccurate. Cotton Guard also makes Whimsicott quite challenging to take down with physical attacks, but there isn't a shortage of special attacks in Ubers. Finally, U-turn can allow Whimsicott to do some scouting, but as Whimsicott's offenses are almost nonexistent, it will do laughable damage to the target.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Shaymin-S is probably the best counter to Whimsicott, as it fears nothing except for a possible sun-boosted Hidden Power Fire on the switch, and can easily dispatch Whimsicott with its STAB Air Slash. Ferrothorn is in the same boat, but it cannot take Whimsicott down as efficiently, and doesn't enjoy being Taunted. Grass Arceus also walls it, but cannot counter it effectively if Toxic Spikes are on the field. Xatu walls Whimsicott to kingdom come, and can freely set up screens. Scizor and Hydreigon can break the SubSeed cycle with U-turn. Forretress and Tentacruel can use Rapid Spin repeatedly to deplete Leech Seed's PP, but this attack is just begging to get Encored.</p>