[Overview]

<p>Although Xatu's extremely underwhelming stats may make it seem like an odd choice for an Uber team, its wonderful ability, Magic Bounce, makes it an excellent supporter and stallbreaker. With Magic Bounce, Xatu walls Ferrothorn and Forretress, completely turning the tables on them by reflecting their entry hazards and status moves. Xatu's high base 95 Speed enables it to get the upper hand on the base 90s that swamp Ubers, allowing it to invest in its Defense. Anyone who uses this feline bird with proper prediction can be confident that stall will not disturb their team. However, not everything is fun and games for Xatu. Its poor base 70 Special Defense and a weakness to the very rocks it reflects make life hard for this bird. This does not mean it is outclassed by the only other Magic Bounce Pokemon; the more specially defensive Espeon, as Xatu has better physical bulk. Regardless, the support Xatu's ability provides still makes it an excellent choice for any Uber team.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Roost
move 4: Night Shade / Heat Wave / Toxic
item: Light Clay / Leftovers
ability: Magic Bounce
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Xatu is able to completely prevent Ferrothorn, Forretress, Skarmory, Tentacruel, Deoxys-D, and Deoxys-S from setting up any entry hazards. It can make use of these free turns to support its team with Light Screen and Reflect, making it a great choice for offensive and stall teams alike. Its physical bulk, immunity to Ground-type moves, 4x resistance to Fighting, and access to reliable recovery in the form of Roost enable it to tank several physical attacks, which is something that its competitor, Espeon, cannot do. For example, Ferrothorn 2HKOes Espeon with Gyro Ball or Power Whip, but is unable to do the same to Xatu. Its physical bulk enables it to wall even most defensive Groudon, reflecting the Stealth Rock this land behemoth attempts to set up and throwing up a Reflect to tank incoming Stone Edges. Magic Bounce not only reflects hazards, but also status moves such as Taunt, Encore, Whirlwind, and Roar; therefore, with accurate prediction, Xatu makes a nice switch-in to Darkrai's signature Dark Void (although beware of its unreliable 80% accuracy), Taunt from the Deoxys formes, and Whirlwind from Lugia. Such talents are what make it a fantastic stall killer.</p>

<p>In the final moveslot, Night Shade provides the most consistent damage, while sun support lets Heat Wave 2HKO the most specially defensive Ferrothorn and OHKO all Forretress once Sturdy is broken. Although Toxic leaves you ineffectual against these two Steel-types, Xatu can still PP stall Ferrothorn, and Toxic allows Xatu to wear down the likes of Ho-Oh, Groudon, and Lugia.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Light Clay is obviously the preferred item for a dual screen supporter, but Leftovers is viable to ensure greater longevity against Ferrothorn's Gyro Ball, Groudon's Stone Edge, or Dialga's Draco Meteor. Xatu can also run a set with Wish and U-turn for additional team support. However, its Wishes are rather small due to Xatu's low base HP and this will reduce its longevity. Nonetheless, if such a set is desired, a Relaxed nature and 0 Speed IVs may be used to take a hit before Xatu's teammate is brought in.</p>

<p>Xatu works well with anything that dislikes hazards, such as Ho-Oh or Kyogre, or benefits from screens, such as Rayquaza and Cloyster. However, it particularly enjoys Giratina-O and Groudon support. The former can block Forretress's Rapid Spin, and if you are brave, even be switched back for Xatu to nab another layer of hazards. Meanwhile, Groudon provides sun for Giratina-O or Xatu to pound Ferrothorn and Forretress with a boosted Heat Wave. It furthermore checks several of Xatu's biggest threats, including Zekrom, Terrakion, and Tyranitar. Ho-Oh also fits nicely into this combination, taking advantage of the lack of Stealth Rock and the sun from Groudon. </p>

<p>With no investment in its paltry base 70 base Special Defense, Xatu is OHKOed by all of Kyogre's attacks and Draco Meteor from any specially offensive Dragon-type. However, correct prediction and Light Screen will allow it to wall Dialga and Choice Scarf Palkia. Both Chansey and Ferrothorn provide excellent support by taking advantage of the lack of hazards while soaking up these troublesome special attacks. Lastly, it should be noted that Dialga, Tyranitar, Deoxys-A, and Offensive Groudon can all set up Stealth Rock, but can also OHKO Xatu. Hence, Xatu requires a fairly high level of prediction to prevent Stealth Rock entirely.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A set with Toxic / Heat Wave / Roost / Night Shade can be an effective stall breaker. It allows Xatu to take full advantage of its immunity to Roar, Whirlwind, and decent physical bulk to destroy common Spikers. A Calm Mind set with Psyshock, Heat Wave, and Roost can also make use of Magic Bounce to set up and possibly sweep. However, it will struggle against Giratina-O and Espeon is a more effective user of this strategy due to the fact it has better Special Attack, Special Defense and Speed. Finally, Xatu has the ability to set up Trick Room and proceed to U-turn to a more capable attacker. This not only sets up slower Pokemon for a sweep, but also prevents the entry hazards that, for instance, weaken Kyogre's Water Spout. Xatu's lack of special bulk and Trick Room's -7 priority may prevent it from surviving long enough to twist the dimensions, though.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Xatu can prevent Stealth Rock from being set up, wall Ferrothorn and Forretress, and set up dual screens. That is unfortunately pretty much the extent of Xatu's abilities. Its base stats often leave it overwhelmed in Ubers, as Kyogre, Palkia, Mewtwo, Shaymin-S, and most variants of specially offensive Arceus can happily switch in on all of Xatu's attacks, bar Toxic, and OHKO or 2HKO with their powerful special attacks. Dialga and Deoxys-A can do the same, but are even more threatening as they have access to Stealth Rock. Furthermore, the former has a Toxic immunity that leaves Xatu useless against it. Zekrom can also switch into anything but Toxic and OHKO with Bolt Strike or Fusion Bolt, although Choice Scarf variants will only manage a 2HKO if Reflect is up. Tyranitar deserves a special mention since it also sets up Stealth Rock, and can hit Xatu for super effective damage with Pursuit. Pursuit from Life Orb or Choice Band Tyranitar does well over 50% to Xatu even with Reflect up and will OHKO if Xatu switches. Offensive Groudon is also troublesome as Xatu will often switch in to catch Stealth Rock or Earthquake only to be outsped and OHKOed by a super effective Stone Edge. Xatu also fears Choice Scarf Terrakion and Victini in the sun, as they both always 2HKO Xatu and have a decent chance of OHKOing even through Reflect. Choice Band Metagross is not threatened by any of Xatu's moves and can continue to Meteor Mash until it gets an Attack boost or a critical hit for an OHKO. Scizor and Heracross can also annoy Xatu by hitting it with powerful Bug-type STAB moves when it Roosts, but they will take huge damage from Heat Wave in sun.</p>