[Overview]

<p>Despite a constantly changing metagame, Aerodactyl has retained his position as a popular lead; this is largely because of his access to Taunt and the fastest Stealth Rock in OU outside of Choice Scarf users. Aerodactyl, for better or worse, will continue to be an influential lead with his simple but effective playstyle, easily preventing other leads from setting up entry hazards while setting up his own.</p> 

<p>Alternatively, Aerodactyl can venture from the lead position by making use of his great Speed not only offensively but, surprisingly, defensively as well. Though the Life Orb set has some shortcomings, it has the potential to rip through unprepared or weakened teams as Aerodactyl can outrun a major portion of the metagame, including the ever-popular Choice Scarf Tyranitar. With the correct support, Life Orb Aerodactyl can also jeopardize stall teams, a skill that few Pokemon possess. Defensively, Aerodactyl can use the SubRoost strategy effectively to be a complete annoyance against any team, provided he has the correct support.</p>

[SET]
name: Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Rock Slide / Stone Edge
move 4: Earthquake
item: Focus Sash
ability: Pressure
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Against the perpetually changing OU metagame, Aerodactyl has constantly filled his niche as one of the best suicide leads. The game plan is straightforward: Aerodactyl should prevent the opposing lead from setting up in any way by using Taunt while laying down Stealth Rock when possible. Aerodactyl can then batter the opponent with EdgeQuake before fainting, or switch to another team member. Should Aerodactyl be up against certain leads that require prediction, such as Roserade and opposing Aerodactyl, the game plan can be modified.</p>

<p>The choice between Rock Slide and Stone Edge is entirely up to the user. Rock Slide is the primary option thanks to its higher accuracy and good flinch chance; the combination of these two factors in tandem with Aerodactyl's high Speed might prove useful against leads holding Focus Sash. On the other hand, Stone Edge is a stronger option, trading lower accuracy for higher power. It should be noted that Stone Edge will always OHKO lead Dragonite after Life Orb recoil, as well as other Flying-type leads, such as Crobat and Zapdos.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Aerodactyl can rarely take more than a hit or two with no EV investment in his defenses, which leaves Focus Sash as the only viable item. It not only gives Aerodactyl a second chance if you mispredict with Taunt, but also allows him to survive hits from faster Pokemon. Some common counters to watch out for are Choice Scarf Jirachi and Metagross, who can 2HKO Aerodactyl with Iron Head or Meteor Mash + Bullet Punch, respectively. Magnezone can easily trap Choice Scarf Jirachi thanks to Magnet Pull, use its good Defense stat and 4x resistance to Iron Head to set up a Substitute without fear, and proceed to KO Jirachi with Thunderbolt. Chances are, Magnezone will keep its Substitute intact, which allows it to deal damage to another Pokemon before being forced out. Aerodactyl also covers Magnezone's weaknesses to Fire- and Ground-type attacks, which lets him easily come back in to set up Stealth Rock later in the match.</p>

<p>The ability to lay Stealth Rock early is a major asset to wear down the opponent's team, whatever your team's strategy might be, so strong sweepers and bulky walls or tanks alike all make good partners. For example, Nasty Plot Infernape cannot OHKO common variants of Gyarados and Dragonite without Stealth Rock on the field, while phazers such as Suicune and Heatran also benefit from entry hazards. A team with Aerodactyl also appreciates strong Ghost-types who can block Rapid Spin. Gengar and Rotom-H are excellent examples that are able to dish out damage while simultaneously blocking Rapid Spin. Both must keep in mind, however, that common spinners such as Starmie and Forretress have ways of combating Ghost-types, and might swiftly KO with Hydro Pump and Payback, respectively.</p>

<p>Certain leads, while not necessarily counters to lead Aerodactyl, can turn the tide of the battle in their favor. It is strongly encouraged that you carry pivots for bulkier leads as Aerodactyl can't deal significant damage to them. Though a rare lead in today's metagame, Bronzong takes very little damage from all of Aerodactyl's attacks and can easily 2HKO Aerodactyl with Gyro Ball. Swampert, on the other hand, is moderately common and can 2HKO Aerodactyl with Ice Beam. Aerodactyl must also watch out for other lead Aerodactyl, as whoever wins the Speed tie gains an immediate advantage. If one is fighting an opposing Aerodactyl, it would be wise to attempt to Taunt first to stop him from setting up Stealth Rock.</p>

[SET]
name: Life Orb 
move 1: Stone Edge
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Taunt
move 4: Roost
item: Life Orb
ability: Pressure
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With great coverage in only two attacking moves, blistering Speed, and access to Roost and Taunt to beat stall teams, Aerodactyl fills a great niche on offensive teams outside the lead spot. This Aerodactyl can find a niche on stall teams as well. Despite his horrible defenses, Aerodactyl checks many common threats to stall teams, such as Infernape, Gliscor, Taunt Heatran, Lucario, Choice Scarf Tyranitar, and mixed Dragonite.</p>

<p>Stone Edge is Aerodactyl's primary STAB move and deals a lot of damage to Pokemon who do not resist it, while Earthquake completes the EdgeQuake combo, which provides fantastic type coverage. Roost alleviates the weaknesses given by Aerodactyl's Flying typing, and lets him heal against weak special attacks such as Blissey's Ice Beam.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With maximum Speed, Aerodactyl outspeeds every non-boosted Pokemon in the metagame bar Jolteon, Crobat, and Ninjask, all of whom the two listed moves hit for super effective damage. In addition, Aerodactyl outpaces both neutral-natured +1 Dragon Dance Gyarados and Dragonite. Some Speed EVs can be relocated towards HP to sustain Aerodactyl's ability to take special attacks in sandstorm while maintaining the capability to outrun certain threats. Specifically, a spread of 108 HP / 252 Atk / 150 Spe lets Aerodactyl outspeed the common Choice Scarf Tyranitar.</p>

<p>Fire Blast and Crunch are potential replacements for Taunt if one wants to hurt offensive teams rather than stall-oriented teams. Even with a hindering nature, Fire Blast OHKOes physically defensive Forretress 100% of the time, as well as Scizor after Stealth Rock damage. Crunch 2HKOes Celebi after some residual damage, and provides a more accurate attack to deal with Psychic- and Ghost-type threats, particularly Rotom-A. Although one might be tempted to invest EVs in Special Attack to spice up Fire Blast, it is discouraged as Fire Blast already destroys its specific targets.</p>

<p>Entry hazards and hard-hitting Pokemon both help Aerodactyl clean up. In particular, Stealth Rock helps Aerodactyl get the guaranteed KO on bulky Gyarados after Intimidate. As Aerodactyl doesn't hit very hard, powerful teammates such as mixed Dragonite help Aerodactyl break down bulky walls, such as Hippowdon, Celebi, and Swampert. Tyranitar and Magnezone are two great partners for Aerodactyl. The former provides sandstorm, which increases Aerodactyl's Special Defense and makes him one of the best Heatran switch-ins in the game; Tyranitar can also lure and remove some of Aerodactyl's counters, including Gliscor, Bronzong, and Breloom, with a bait set. Magnezone traps pesky Steel-types such as Choice Scarf Jirachi and Scizor, who get in Aerodactyl's way.</p>

[SET]
name: SubRoost
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Roost
move 3: Taunt / Whirlwind
move 4: Rock Slide / Whirlwind
item: Leftovers
ability: Pressure
nature: Jolly
evs: 248 HP / 116 Atk / 144 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Aerodactyl's Speed, resistances, and Pressure ability give him all the right tools to run a successful SubRoost set. The idea behind this set is to set up sandstorm and bring in Aerodactyl on an attack he resists or is immune to, such as Fire Blast, Return, or Earthquake. From there, Aerodactyl can usually set up Substitute with his base 130 Speed stat and attempt to stall out the opponent's PP with Pressure. To ensure that Aerodactyl can continue making Substitutes, Roost is a necessity on the set. With sandstorm boosting Aerodactyl's Special Defense to a respectable level, Aerodactyl can usually feel free to use Roost even when not protected by a Substitute.</p>

<p>The other two attacks on the set are almost as important as Substitute and Roost. Taunt prevents foes from using any phazing or healing moves, which can be a major asset if Aerodactyl is used in conjunction with entry hazards. With a sandstorm brewing, Aerodactyl will quickly eat up an opponent's health. Rock Slide helps damage Flying-type or Levitating Pokemon that are immune to Toxic Spikes; as a small side bonus, it can also flinch opponents. Whirlwind can be used over either move as Aerodactyl outspeeds and can drive away other phazers, such as Skarmory and Swampert. Taunt does this as well, but Whirlwind has the advantage of forcing opponents to take damage from entry hazards.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>While most Aerodactyl should only focus on Attack and Speed, the SubRoost set is the only exception; he must capitalize on his defensive abilities along with keeping a steady amount of Speed. The Attack investment allows Aerodactyl to KO non-bulky Dragonite and Gyarados with Rock Slide after Stealth Rock and two turns of sandstorm, while the Speed investment lets him outrun Choice Scarf Tyranitar; the rest is put in HP to better take hits on both sides. If not running Rock Slide, Aerodactyl can use an alternative EV spread of 248 HP / 116 SpD / 144 Spe to better take special hits. Alternatively, if Dragon Dance Gyarados is a huge threat to the team, a spread of 148 HP / 108 Atk / 252 Spe is an option. Lastly, if Aerodactyl does not have Toxic Spikes support, he should consider dropping Rock Slide for Toxic, as this gives him a decent option for depleting his opponents' HP along with their PP. Toxic is also particularly valuable because Aerodactyl tends to draw out bulky Water-type Pokemon such as Swampert, who absolutely hate eating Toxic. 

<p>This Aerodactyl set clearly benefits from entry hazards, as Pressure, Taunt, and Whirlwind will cause havoc and force plenty of switches. Scizor is a huge threat to Aerodactyl as Bullet Punch will KO Aerodactyl before he has the opportunity to Roost; with either a Choice Scarf or a Substitute set, Magnezone can trap and eliminate Scizor. Metagross and Tyranitar are also big threats as they are immune to sandstorm damage and can take out Aerodactyl with their STAB attacks. Skarmory can usually switch in on both of them and lay even more entry hazards with Spikes. Finally, Pursuit Tyranitar or Roar Hippowdon is needed, not only to set up sandstorm, but also to remove Ghost-types, and in Hippowdon's case, force more switches. </p>

[Other Options]

<p>Despite having a decent movepool for a Rock-type, Aerodactyl generally does not have many alternative options. A Choice Band set consisting of Stone Edge, Earthquake, and two filler moves is viable thanks to Aerodactyl's blistering Speed, more-than-decent Attack, and powerful offensive options. However, unlike Choice item users such as Jolteon, Starmie, and Scizor, Aerodactyl's primary moves have too little utility. While this Choice Band set employs the EdgeQuake combo, Aerodactyl will find himself switching repeatedly due to the many Pokemon who resist Earthquake and Stone Edge individually, which opens him to Pursuit and Bullet Punch from the common Scizor. A set focused on Curse and White Herb could have some success, especially in sandstorm, where both of Aerodactyl's defenses would be raised. Unfortunately, Kingdra and Gyarados can both use Dragon Dance to be both stronger and faster than Aerodactyl, and while Aerodactyl would have increased bulk from Curse, weaknesses to Steel-, Ice-, and Water-type attacks severely hinder him.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Aerodactyl's top counters include Pokemon that can attack before him despite his blazing Speed. Unsurprisingly, Scizor, Metagross, and Jirachi are the most notable opponents that all Aerodactyl users should be prepared for. Scizor and Metagross can redress Aerodactyl's Speed and eliminate him using a simple Bullet Punch, or, should Aerodactyl have taken some prior damage, a smart Pursuit. Jirachi can play mind games with Aerodactyl using its choice of Iron Head and Thunder Wave; Choice Scarf sets are particularly dangerous. Other users of priority moves, such as Mamoswine and Weavile, are also great checks, as Aerodactyl is weak to Ice Shard. Aerodactyl can also be countered using defensively oriented Pokemon. Swampert and Breloom make great counters as they take little from Aerodactyl's attacks. Breloom in particular resists Aerodactyl's main options, only fears Life Orb Fire Blast, and can play mind games using Spore, Focus Punch, and Seed Bomb. Forretress and Bronzong can both use Gyro Ball to eliminate Aerodactyl, but the former has to be wary of Fire Blast.</p>
 
<p>The specific leads that limit lead Aerodactyl to only setting up Stealth Rock are Machamp, Infernape, Metagross, Empoleon, and Mamoswine, all of whom use a priority move to nullify his Focus Sash. Pokemon who resist the EdgeQuake combination, such as Breloom, Flygon, and Bronzong, make great counters to Life Orb Aerodactyl. Faster Choice Scarf users, such as Rotom-A, cannot switch in without losing a large chunk of health, but can easily revenge kill Life Orb variants. It should be noted that with sandstorm support and Roost, Aerodactyl can actually outlast Choice Scarf users such as Heatran and Rotom-A, so one should be wary when taking this route. Choice Scarf Flygon, as with Breloom, resists Aerodactyl's main options and can either use U-turn to scout the switch-in or use Outrage.</p>