[Overview]

<p>Despite the many Water- and Electric-types in OU, Lanturn fills a unique niche in the OU metagame: resistances to some of the most common special attacks, a 4x resistance to Steel, immunity to Thunder Wave, and fantastic coverage between his two STABs and Ice Beam are all very appealing. Lanturn is the closest thing you will find to a 100% counter to Life Orb Starmie and Substitute + Thunder Wave Jirachi, both of whom run rampant in today's metagame.

Like most UU Pokemon used in OU, Lanturn is very much a high risk, high reward type of Pokemon. While the above-mentioned benefits are great, Lanturn's mediocre Speed and low Defense often put it at the mercy of OU's top physical threats. In addition, both of Lanturn's OU sets require a fair amount of luck to reach their maximum effectiveness. If you're feeling daring though and want to add a little color to your team, give Lanturn a splash!</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Charge Beam
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Charge Beam
move 3: Hydro Pump / Surf
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Leftovers
ability: Volt Absorb
nature: Modest
evs: 52 HP / 252 SpA / 148 SpD / 56 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lanturn's unique typing and valuable ability give him plenty of free switches in the OU metagame. However, his mediocre Special Attack, Speed, and tendency for luring Blissey in without fail has had the effect on making Lanturn utterly unusable in the OU tier. This set attempts to fix that through the use of Substitute and Charge Beam, turning Lanturn into a surprisingly dangerous mid-game Pokemon, capable of seriously denting the opponent's team.</p>

<p>Substitute will usually be the first move you use. Many of the Pokemon Lanturn easily comes in on are likely to switch out, and Substitute allows you to safely pick your next move. It also blocks status moves from Blissey and Vaporeon who think they can stall Lanturn to death with Toxic. After Substitute, your next move is dictated by whoever switches in. Hydro Pump deals over 50% to most Machamp, Metagross, Scizor, Tyranitar, and Jirachi. Ice Beam is for Dragon-type Pokemon, Gliscor, and Breloom. If you're met with bulkier Pokemon like Blissey, Zapdos, or Celebi, Charge Beam away and then hit them with Hydro Pump or Ice Beam when you're ready.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The lack of Thunderbolt may be surprising at first glance, but Charge Beam is really the better move for this set. Unlike other Electric-type Pokemon, Lanturn's Water STAB allows him to run only Hydro Pump or Surf as his powerful STAB attack. The most common offensive switch-ins to Lanturn are hit equally hard by Surf as they are by Thunderbolt (Tyranitar actually being hit harder by Surf). Against bulky Water-types where an Electric-type attack is needed, Charge Beam is more than enough. Most bulky Water-types can't touch Lanturn in the first place, so you are free to chip away at their health and stat up. Charge Beam also allows Lanturn to beat many Pokemon who would repeatedly use an instant recovery move to try to stall out turns. Hydro Pump is recommended over Surf on this set for the OHKO on Heatran and the 2HKO on the aforementioned Pokemon. Surf also ruins any shot at taking Blissey down, something that can usually be done with Hydro Pump and a couple of Charge Beams. Surf is still an option for more conservative players, but Lanturn really needs all the power he can get for this set to be effective.</p>

<p>52 HP EVs let you make 101 HP Substitutes, which together with Leftovers recovery and Charge Beam/Hydro Pump will more often than not let you take down Seismic Toss Blissey. The Speed EVs put you at 184 Speed, one point ahead of the standard Vaporeon. This is important as it allows you to set up on Vaporeon before he can Toxic you. The investment also helps against the occasional Scizor, Machamp, Tyranitar, or Metagross with a minimal investment in Speed. Special Attack is maxed to cause as much damage as possible with Lanturn's fantastic coverage. The rest is dumped in Special Defense, as those EVs combined with Lanturn's resistances to common special attacks help him repeatedly check special threats during a match. With the above spread, Grass Knot&mdash;which hits for 40 Base Power&mdash;from a Defensive Celebi has a 50% chance not to even break Lanturn's Substitute.</p>

<p>Depending on your opponent's team and playstyle, this Lanturn usually ends up being used in one of two ways: as a hit-and-run Pokemon or as a setup sweeper. You will find opportunities to switch Lanturn in against the majority of OU teams, whether it be into a bulky Water-type or into choiced Electric- or Steel-type attacks. Lanturn's ability to force switches gives him many chances to use Substitute, which prepares you for either playing style depending on your opponent's switch-in. If your opponent relies on bulky Pokemon like Machamp, Swampert, or Metagross to check Lanturn, using Lanturn as a hit-and-run attacker is recommended. Against stall teams using Charge Beam is preferred, but make sure you keep Lanturn away from Toxic Spikes. One-on-one against Blissey, Lanturn will usually come out on top with 20-30% health left, a number of Charge Beam boosts and possibly a Substitute up; this means Lanturn will often be left in a position to take a second Pokemon down. Charge Beaming up against Calm Mind sweepers however, most notably Suicune and Jirachi, is more dangerous and should generally be avoided. Lanturn will need a critical hit to beat such opponents, but considering Suicune and Jirachi will need several Calm Minds to pose a threat to Lanturn, you stand a good chance of getting one with Charge Beam.</p>

[SET]
name: Parafusion
move 1: Thunder Wave
move 2: Confuse Ray
move 3: Thunderbolt / Discharge
move 4: Ice Beam / Surf
item: Leftovers
ability: Volt Absorb
nature: Calm
evs: 36 HP / 220 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lanturn is a relatively bulky Pokemon with a valuable niche in the OU metagame. Investing in Lanturn's bulk makes him a very effective defensive Pokemon, and his movepool further enables him to be a great staller. Thunder Wave is paired with Confuse Ray to give the opponent a mere 3/8 chance to move every turn.</p>

<p>Playing with this set is relatively simple, but still requires some forethought. On Lanturn's first turn out, he can either use Confuse Ray or Thunder Wave. Thunder Wave will catch Pokemon that are not immune to Electric-type attacks, which then allows Lanturn to outspeed them the following turn and hit them with Confuse Ray. However, as this strategy fails against Ground-type Pokemon and other Pokemon that are immune to Electric-type moves, like Electivire and Jolteon, leading with Confuse Ray also works. The problems with using Confuse Ray first are that you're missing out on the true status effect, paralysis, on the opposing Pokemon and that Lanturn isn't guaranteed to hit the opponent with Thunder Wave before being attacked in return.</p>

<p>As for attacking moves, Thunderbolt and Ice Beam are preferred to form the BoltBeam coverage combo. Discharge can be used over Thunderbolt if you'd like Lanturn to have a handy chance of paralyzing opponents while doing some damage. Additionally, Lanturn's secondary STAB move, Surf, is very effective for putting down opposing Fire-types, as well as Ground-type Pokemon that are neutral to Ice-type attacks, so it may be worth considering over Ice Beam.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is fairly straightforward for a defensive Pokemon. 36 HP EVs hit a Leftovers number, and maximizing Special Defense investment with a Calm nature is critical for switching into Starmie over the course of a match. The rest of the EVs are placed in Defense to bolster that lower defensive stat. Leftovers goes without saying on Lanturn to give it some semblance of durability. Substitute is an option over either an attacking move or Confuse Ray to scout for switch-ins and to guarantee Lanturn a free turn. If using Substitute over an attacking move, Surf becomes the recommended attack due to its great neutral coverage.</p>

<p>It's not often that you can say this about a Pokemon, but Lanturn actually pairs exceptionally well with Togekiss. Togekiss can switch into Grass- and Ground-type attacks aimed at Lanturn and abuse paralysis with Serene Grace Air Slash's flinch rate to form the paraflinch combo. In return, Lanturn will happily switch into the Ice- and Electric-type attacks that Togekiss lures, and resists all of the common moves that Starmie and other threats will throw at Togekiss. Jirachi also partners well with Lanturn thanks to Serene Grace Iron Head and its ability to effortlessly switch into Grass-type attacks. Both Lanturn and Jirachi fear Ground-type attacks, though, so other partners should cover that. Generally speaking, even teams without Togekiss or Jirachi should benefit from Lanturn's ability to check Starmie and other users of the BoltBeam attacking combo, such as some variants of Zapdos.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lanturn's limited options and relatively low stats prevent him from running very much effectively in OU. He can function adequately on OU Rain Dance teams by both abusing the pseudo-STAB of rain and 100% accurate STAB Thunder. Stockpile coupled with Toxic can turn Lanturn into an annoying Toxic staller, but being susceptible to poison makes the prospects of that set being successful relatively low.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Without a Substitute up on the SubCharge set, most of OU's physical threats can easily force Lanturn out, as they will usually be faster than Lanturn. Be careful switching such Pokemon into Lanturn though, as between Lanturn's offensive coverage and the possibility of having a Substitute up, Lanturn can severely weaken many of them. For this reason Flygon with U-turn makes a particularly good counter to SubCharge Lanturn, as he can remove Lanturn's Substitute and switch to an appropriate counter in the same turn. When using the Parafusion set, Lanturn becomes a lot harder to take down in one blow, especially if the opponent is not immune to Thunder Wave. For this reason Ground-type Pokemon with a powerful Earthquake, such as Swampert, are strongly recommended to effectively deal with this set. Snorlax with Earthquake is a phenomenal switch-in to Lanturn, not particularly caring about paralysis and able to take the assaults of SubCharge sets with ease. Not many special attackers can switch into Lanturn without putting themselves at serious risk. Jolteon with Hidden Power Grass can switch into the Parafusion set well, as Ice Beam won't do too much to him.</p>

<p>As far as defensive Pokemon go, Swampert deserves special mention as the only bulky Water-type capable of handling Lanturn: Hydro Pump is only a 3HKO, while Earthquake will scare Lanturn away. Note that Swampert cannot switch repeatedly into Lanturn however, as he will quickly succumb to Hydro Pump. Celebi with Leaf Storm also poses a threat to Lanturn, as it is not even 2HKOed by Ice Beam. Grass Knot is a laughing matter for Lanturn though, as it hits for 40 Base Power. Blissey can handle Lanturn if she comes in when Lanturn is low on health, but be wary of a Charge Beam sweep if she comes in on a Lanturn with over 70% health or a Substitute.</p>