[Overview]

<p>While Quagsire may be adorable, it is also rather forgettable due to its low base stat total and inferiority to other bulky Water-types, most notably Swampert. Although admittedly flawed, Quagsire does sport access to Recover, Water Absorb, and Encore to differentiate itself from the oversized mudpuppy. These traits allow it to be one of the few hard counters to all variants of Starmie (which is no easy feat) while still faring decently well against Pokemon such as Metagross and Tyranitar. All in all, Quagsire's extremely niche options can allow it to function in standard; just make sure that what it's doing can't be done better by other Water-types.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Encore
move 3: Recover
move 4: Toxic / Ice Punch
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
ability: Water Absorb
evs: 252 HP / 56 Def / 200 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Quagsire's stats are admittedly below average, but its access to Encore, Recover, and Water Absorb, in addition to its relatively rare Ground sub-typing, give it some decent perks over other bulky Water-types. For what it's worth, Quagsire is one of the few hard counters to Life Orb Starmie; it is immune to both Hydro Pump and Thunderbolt, while Ice Beam can't even muster a 3HKO factoring in Leftovers. Quagsire also fares quite well against physical threats such as Metagross, Tyranitar, and Gyarados, as well as several Water- and Electric-type attackers that lack a Grass-type move to deal with it.</p>

<p>Earthquake is a great STAB move which helps make up for Quagsire's rather disappointing Attack stat, garnering super effective hits on various important threats, including the aforementioned Metagross and Tyranitar. Recover and Encore are what set Quagsire apart from most other Water-types, allowing Quagsire a reliable instant recovery move with decent PP and a particularly creative method to force switches, respectively. Toxic is used in the final slot for when Earthquake just doesn't cut it, allowing Quagsire to Toxic stall with Recover like Gliscor does with Roost. On the other hand, Ice Punch gets almost perfect coverage with Earthquake and allows Quagsire to check Flygon and Dragonite with greater ease.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread maximizes Quagsire's effective bulk, and is largely geared towards Special Defense since many of the Pokemon Quagsire can check are specially based, such as Starmie. Enough is invested into Special Defense that Life Orb Starmie's Ice Beam never 3HKOes Quagsire, while the hint in Defense helps cushion against physical attackers such as Metagross and Flygon. A physically geared EV spread is viable, but it leaves Quagsire largely outclassed by Swampert.</p>

<p>As a bulky Water-type, Quagsire works excellently alongside Grass- and Fire-types as part of a team core. Roserade, in particular, works marvelously for its ability to absorb any stray Toxic Spikes, which absolutely cripple Quagsire, and set up Spikes, which will undoubtedly get their money's worth thanks to Quagsire's ability to force switches with Encore. Similarly, other entry hazard supporters, such as Skarmory and Forretress, also work well with Quagsire, both being x4 resistant to its Grass-type weakness, while it in return is at least resistant to all of their weaknesses. Forretress is also able to Rapid Spin away entry hazards, which is great since Quagsire can find itself Spikes fodder quite easily. Mixed Infernape can be used as the Fire-type in the core that serves as a pivot to break through the bulkier Pokemon that give Quagsire problems. Quagsire's Encore also makes it considerably easier for Infernape to switch in and wreak havoc. Pokemon with a similar lack of resistances or bulk will also appreciate Quagsire's Encore.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Quagsire has no other set that wouldn't have it outclassed by Swampert or some other bulky Water-type, but in the last slot of its only set, there are some possibilities. Yawn, Haze, and Stone Edge are decent alternatives; the former two help against set-up sweepers (and general phazing too with respect to the first), while Stone Edge gets great coverage with Earthquake, nabbing super effective hits on many important Flying-types. STAB Waterfall can also be used as a secondary STAB move with decent coverage. Finally, Body Slam has a nifty 30% paralysis rate that can also be useful for Quagsire.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taking advantage of Quagsire's lack of power is often a great way to deal with it. Since it loses much of its presence once its support moves are taken out of the equation, Taunt users such as Azelf and Aerodactyl make good checks. Substitute users such as Gengar and Rotom-A will also cause trouble if they're immune or resistant to Earthquake, for mostly the same reasons. Quagsire will also find it extremely difficult to do anything substantial to most defensive Spikes users, so a Pokemon like Skarmory or Forretress can usually unload themselves on Quagsire with impunity. Obviously, Grass-types such as Shaymin, Celebi, Breloom, and Roserade counter Quagsire with their massive type advantage. Burning or poisoning Quagsire will cut its longevity greatly, as it simply cannot take a negative Leftovers recovery on top of its mediocre defenses. The additional effects of burn and poison will also help when Quagsire has to use its attacks or is trying to Toxic stall itself, respectively. Do be wary of the stray Yawn when switching in your counter though, and make sure not to try to set up on Quagsire unless you're sure it's not going to Encore.</p>