[Overview]

<p>When considering Grass-types, Shaymin is inevitably compared to Celebi. Both are base 100 Grass-types with Natural Cure, and Celebi has the edge in its host of support moves (including Recover). However, Shaymin gives it a run for its money with Seed Flare and a lack of Psychic typing to hold it back. Rounded base 100 stats provide Shaymin with respectable offense, solid bulk, and an important Speed stat, while Natural Cure allows Shaymin to switch out and heal the kinds of status that cripple other sweepers. Despite its movepool being somewhat shallow, Shaymin gets most of the coverage it needs, and has access to Seed Flare, its powerful signature move; Seed Flare's Special Defense drops mean even Blissey must be careful around it. A sturdy sweeper, Shaymin fits well in most Fire/Water/Grass cores, and has the ability to get rid of many of OU's bulky threats, such as Tyranitar, Hippowdon, Rotom-A, bulky Water-types (such as Suicune and Vaporeon), and Gliscor, giving it a useful role in the metagame.</p>

<p>However, Scizor, Heatran, and Dragonite, all top threats in OU, give it some trouble, and without the right Hidden Power, it can be set up on easily. Grass as a type has poor coverage in OU because of the prominence of Steel- and Dragon-types, but it also hits the common Water- and Ground-types super effectively, and can easily switch in on Water and Electric moves. Overall, the pros outweigh the cons when using Shaymin, and while it doesn't fit on all teams, it's certainly a threat to be addressed.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Seed Flare
move 2: Earth Power
move 3: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Rest / Leech Seed
nature: Timid / Modest
item: Life Orb / Leftovers
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is a standard offensive Shaymin set with three attacks and a recovery move. This set troubles bulky teams and has the Speed, bulk, and Special Attack to threaten more offensive teams. Seed Flare is Shaymin's staple STAB move, KOing many bulky Waters and Grounds with Life Orb attached. Hippowdon, offensive Rotom-A, and Water-types like Vaporeon and unboosted CroCune all fall to a single Seed Flare (after Stealth Rock damage). Even Blissey is afraid of switching in on Seed Flare due to the possibility of a harsh Special Defense decrease. Earth Power is on the set to augment coverage, hitting many of the Pokemon who resist Seed Flare super effectively, such as Heatran and Jirachi. The Hidden Power is a matter of preference and team needs; both hit opposing Grass-types and other key threats. Hidden Power Ice allows a 31 Speed IV and wipes out Dragonite and other Flying-types, who otherwise come in on Shaymin with impunity, whereas Hidden Power Fire roasts Skarmory, Scizor, and Forretress. Lastly, one can choose either Rest or Leech Seed to keep Shaymin alive. Rest lets Shaymin abuse Natural Cure for full recovery on the switch, but Leech Seed saps away Blissey and Snorlax's HP, as well as cushioning attacks for the team and negating Life Orb recoil. Synthesis is a viable alternative for instant 50% recovery, but Sand Stream is prevalent in OU, rendering it useless most of the time. For those who prefer survivability over raw power, Leftovers is an excellent item option, although it misses out on KOes.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Shaymin works well as part of an offensive Fire/Water/Grass core. This core is useful because their weaknesses and resistances complement each other well, and there are many options for offensive teams. Heatran is the best option for the Fire-type due to its bulk and power. It can run a number of sets and lure Blissey in only to Explode on it. Suicune, Kingdra, and Gyarados all perform wonderfully in the Water-type slot. Kingdra and Gyarados can hit special walls with strong physical attacks (Taunt Gyarados in particular can set up on Blissey and Skarmory, while benefiting from Shaymin's ability to deal with Rotom-A). Suicune has the natural bulk to tank hits from Fire-types, and is particularly useful when you are utilizing Hidden Power Fire, as it makes for a good check to Dragonite. Another option is Starmie, who, while generally useless against Blissey, can wash Skarmory away and use Rapid Spin to rid the field of the opponent's entry hazards. The relationship is mutually beneficial; Shaymin is able to easily take Ground- and Water-type attacks for Heatran, as well as Electric- and Grass-type attacks for the Water-type, while appreciating the resistances that its partners bring to the table.</p>

<p>Leech Seed, if used, forces constant switches, so the best way to exploit this is by setting up Spikes to increase residual damage. Forretress and Skarmory are the best Spikes users in OU, but unfortunately share Shaymin's weakness to Fire. Heatran can absorb these attacks with Flash Fire, and Water-types can sponge them. Forretress can Rapid Spin away hazards and set up Toxic Spikes, while Skarmory can Whirlwind to rack up damage. If you use hazards, make sure to pack a spinblocker such as Rotom-A to defend them!</p>

[SET]
name: Leech Seed
move 1: Leech Seed
move 2: Protect / Substitute
move 3: Seed Flare
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Ice / Earth Power
nature: Modest
item: Leftovers
evs: 252 HP / 76 SpA / 180 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes a more defensive approach, prolonging Shaymin's life, supporting its team, and draining the HP of threats like Blissey. Leech Seed Shaymin is better suited to more defensive teams, where the residual damage racks up from Leech Seed and the possibility of Special Defense drops force switches while Shaymin regains its HP continuously from Leftovers and Leech Seed. The player's choice between Protect and Substitute allows Shaymin to stall out the opponent while getting free turns of recovery. Seed Flare is used as a STAB attack, and the fourth moveslot is a choice between several coverage options. It's important to note that this set is highly similar to Leech Seed Celebi, who has more support options like Recover, but lacks Celebi's Dark- and Ghost-type weaknesses, as well as only having a 2x weakness to Bug-type attacks.</p>

<p>Protect is the primary option because, despite the HP investment, it is easy enough to break Shaymin's Substitutes, and can be used in a pinch should it have under 25% HP. In this sense, Protect consistently allows Shaymin to abuse Leech Seed. Protect also lets Shaymin scout and guard itself against faster opponents. Substitute is an alternative for blocking status moves like Toxic, as well as offering protection from Trick. Unlike Protect, it allows Shaymin to take advantage of the switch. It is also worth noting that Seismic Toss cannot break 252 HP Shaymin's Substitutes in one turn. Beware of the opponent setting up on your Protects or Substitutes, however! The final moveslot has three options and can be tailored to suit a team's individual needs. Hidden Power Fire gets rid of the Skarmory, Scizor, and Forretress who cause this set a lot of grief, though Hidden Power Ice is acceptable if you find Dragonite plaguing you. Both Hidden Powers hit Grass-types—who are immune to Leech Seed—super effectively. Earth Power is a possibility as well for Heatran and Infernape, and does more damage against grounded Steels like Jirachi.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The designated EVs are highly customizable. The spread given has 252 HP to capitalize on Shaymin's natural bulk, and 180 Speed EVs to reach 280 Speed, which allows Shaymin to outspeed Adamant Lucario, +Speed Heatran, and neutral-natured Rotom-A. More EVs can be added for Mamoswine and other Pokemon designed to beat Adamant Lucario, while max Speed is usable for Timid Rotom and Offensive Suicune. Be aware that the Speed number suggested is assuming a 30 Speed IV, so you can deduct 4 EVs from Speed if you are using Hidden Power Ice or Earth Power. The remaining EVs are placed in Special Attack to help Shaymin hit harder, though they can also be invested in Special Defense in order to take Starmie's Ice Beams / Hydro Pumps, random Hidden Powers, and attacks from the likes of Rotom-A better; Shaymin generally switches in on resisted special hits anyway.</p>

<p>This Shaymin functions best in a Fire/Water/Grass defensive core, as its weaknesses and resistances neatly complement that of the core. It provides team support in the form of Leech Seed, which cushions blows and increases Shaymin's overall survivability, and is able to beat a number of specific threats (Rotom-A, Hippowdon, Vaporeon, and Swampert, for example). Also, unlike other sets, this Shaymin can consistently trouble most Blissey. If a Fire-type is used, Heatran is again the best option. There is a wide range of possibilities for a Water-type partner: Vaporeon, Swampert, Suicune, and defensive Gyarados work the best. All of the aforementioned Pokemon are excellent at tanking hits and have their own advantages. Swampert has Roar and Stealth Rock, and also carries an Electric immunity (but beware of Electric-types using Hidden Power Grass, though Shaymin walls them in that case bar Zapdos and Rotom-H). Gyarados counters Fighting-types and Scizor effectively with Intimidate and its Flying typing, especially with its natural bulk invested in. Vaporeon and Suicune are both very bulky as well. Vaporeon can support the team with Wish, while Suicune makes for a sturdy set-up sweeper.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice
move 1: Seed Flare
move 2: Earth Power
move 3: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Fire
move 4: Rest
nature: Timid
item: Choice Scarf / Choice Specs
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Shaymin can utilize one of two items to boost its respective stat. Choice Scarf takes advantage of Shaymin's base 100 Speed to revenge kill most Pokemon in OU (all Heatran, Jirachi, and +1 Dragonite, as well as +2 Adamant Metagross, Empoleon, and Tyranitar). Choice Specs has raw power without Life Orb recoil. For example, Choice Specs Shaymin OHKOes 4 HP Kingdra, Gyarados, Flygon, and all Tyranitar with Seed Flare; it also 2HKOes Celebi and Specially Defensive Skarmory with a super effective Hidden Power, and Scizor with Earth Power (after Stealth Rock damage). Specs decimates switch-ins and Scarf outspeeds the likes of Scarf Heatran expecting to go first, as well as tying with Flygon. Due to Choice items locking the user into one move, this set requires a lot of prediction, but has good payoff. Be careful of letting your opponent set up multiple layers of Spikes or Heatran get a Flash Fire boost. Hidden Power Ice is handiest to revenge kill Dragonite and Flygon, but Hidden Power Fire is still a useful option for those preferring to hit Scizor, Forretress, and Skarmory. Should you get a spare turn, Rest makes for decent filler so that Shaymin can fully recover, but Energy Ball is an option for a clean-up STAB without the accuracy and PP issues of Seed Flare.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Timid is the best nature because +Speed base 100s are common in OU. In the case of the Scarfer, Flygon and Jirachi regularly carry Scarf as well, and in the case of Choice Specs, Jirachi, Celebi, and Zapdos are all worth considering, as well as +Speed Lucario and Roserade and +2 Adamant Metagross and Tyranitar. There are other options for the filler moveslot, but all are generally outclassed. Air Slash and Signal Beam let Shaymin hit other Grass-types (such as Celebi) harder, but Hidden Power Ice and Fire both do plenty of damage anyway, especially if you are using Specs.</p>

<p>Choice Shaymin's best partners are the usual suspects: Heatran and Water-types. However, because this Shaymin lacks Leech Seed and can't switch moves, it is imperative it has a partner who can beat Blissey. Infernape or Explosion Magnezone and Heatran work well for this. Heatran and Magnezone can both lure and KO Blissey with Explosion, as well as take out Scizor, Skarmory, and Forretress (particularly necessary if Shaymin is sticking with Hidden Power Ice), since a Choice Seed Flare invites the latter two to set up in its wake. Water-types are great partners for Shaymin because of Heatran and company. Suicune, Kingdra, Starmie, and Gyarados are the best options for that.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Shaymin's movepool is very shallow, and the other options it does have are fairly ineffective. As far as support moves go, it's outclassed by Celebi; Shaymin does have a very inaccurate sleep move in GrassWhistle, as well as Aromatherapy, Safeguard, and Healing Wish&mdash;not much to write home about. Rest or Leech Seed are generally preferable as filler because they are more useful to Shaymin, but it has access to Energy Ball (for reliable STAB), and several other attacks. Air Slash and Signal Beam don't get any extra coverage, but Air Slash <em>can</em> flinch in a pinch, and Signal Beam demolishes Celebi. Psychic can work on Choice Specs Shaymin to 2HKO Dragonite in lieu of Hidden Power Ice, assuming Stealth Rock, and hits Gengar and Roserade super effectively. It gives Tyranitar and other Psychic-resistant a free switch-in, though.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although it is Shaymin's best ally, Heatran poses a lot of problems. Shaymin can take it out with Earth Power if Heatran is not carrying Choice Scarf or Shuca Berry, but Heatran can come in on all of its other moves unscathed. Infernape has trouble switching in repeatedly and has to be careful of Earth Power, but it outspeeds Shaymin and has Fire STAB to roast the little hedgehog with. Without Hidden Power Fire, Skarmory, Forretress, and Scizor all take advantage of Shaymin; without Hidden Power Ice, Dragonite completely walls it. Zapdos, particularly Specially Defensive Zapdos, can hit Shaymin with Heat Wave and Roost away damage (being cautious of Earth Power). Without Life Orb, Roserade and Celebi can exploit it, and as Grass-types, they are immune to Leech Seed; however, both are 2HKOed by a Life Orb-boosted, super effective Hidden Power Fire.</p>

<p>There are a number of Pokemon who can wall Shaymin, but a lot of their defensive strategies will fall apart if their Special Defense drops or Shaymin has Leech Seed. Blissey walls Shaymin and can force it out with Toxic, though it must be careful of the aforementioned problems. Both Cresselia and Blissey can threaten it with Ice Beam, too. Most Blissey generally cannot really harm Shaymin though, and if it stays in on Leech Seed, it becomes Pursuit bait for a number of Pokemon. Snorlax can set up on Shaymin as well, though it loses to Leech Seed.</p>