[Overview] 

<p>Spiritomb often faces stiff competition from the Rotom formes as a spinblocker due to their useful resistances, wide and unique movepools, and Levitate. However, unlike Rotom-A, it doesn't sport a nasty Dark-type weakness which can be exploited by physical behemoths such as Tyranitar and Scizor. Spiritomb is a solid and effective check to major threats such as Rotom-A, Machamp, Azelf, and Lucario, and access to Pressure further sets it apart from other bulky Ghost-types, as Spiritomb can PP stall many Pokemon to death. Spiritomb is also one of the only few true Machamp counters. Overall, Spiritomb has enough to set itself apart from the Rotom formes, and can function as an effective spinblocker even in the Standard environment.</p> 

[SET] 
name: RestTalk 
move 1: Rest 
move 2: Sleep Talk 
move 3: Shadow Ball 
move 4: Will-O-Wisp 
item: Leftovers 
nature: Calm 
evs: 248 HP / 148 Def / 112 SpD 

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Spiritomb's main attraction over Rotom-A is that it is not Pursuit bait, and this set aims to take advantage of that. Rest allows Spiritomb to recover HP while curing status. Sleep Talk as always, pairs well with Rest; it ensures that Spiritomb isn't a sitting duck for two turns, and if it selects Will-O-Wisp, Spiritomb can actually spread burns even when asleep. Will-O-Wisp shuts down most physical attackers, and the residual damage caused by the burn allows Spiritomb to wear down many threats. Shadow Ball is used as the STAB, mono-attacking option over Dark Pulse for two reasons: Spiritomb is too slow to abuse Dark Pulse's chance to flinch, and the occasional Special Defense drops afforded by Shadow Ball can actually force switches.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>Taunt can be used over Sleep Talk to prevent Pokemon such as Skarmory and Forretress from setting up entry hazards, as they are common switch-ins to Spiritomb. Hidden Power Fighting can replace Will-O-Wisp as it gives Spiritomb perfect coverage alongside Shadow Ball, but spreading burns and shutting down physical attackers are too good to pass up. Pursuit can be used over Shadow Ball with a Careful nature to make Spiritomb a better check to Gengar, Starmie, and Azelf. Alternative EV spreads can be used too: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD with a Calm nature balances Spiritomb's defenses after inflicting a burn, and 248 HP / 252 Def / 8 SpD with a Bold nature to make Spiritomb a better physical wall.</p> 

<p>Though Spiritomb itself functions as a team player, it will need quite some support to be effective. Tanks such as Heatran and Blissey walk all over Spiritomb, as they can freely switch into Will-O-Wisp or Shadow Ball and wear it down, or in Blissey's case, force it to use Rest by hitting it with Toxic and switch to a counter. A strong Fighting-type thus makes a good teammate, as it can OHKO both of the aforementioned tanks. Infernape in particular also takes down Pokemon such as Skarmory and Forretress, who commonly use Spiritomb as setup bait, as well as Scizor, who can hurt Spiritomb with a Choice Band U-turn, making it an excellent partner for Spiritomb. Ironically, Blissey and Skarmory too make great teammates; the former sponges powerful special attacks for Spiritomb, while the latter sets up entry hazards that wear Spiritomb's checks down and Skarmory can OHKO Breloom with Brave Bird, who can prove to be troublesome with its immunity to Will-O-Wisp once Toxic Orb activates. Spiritomb also aids in safeguarding Skarmory's entry hazards with its ability to spinblock.</p>

[SET] 
name: Curse 
move 1: Curse 
move 2: Will-O-Wisp 
move 3: Pursuit 
move 4: Rest 
item: Leftovers 
nature: Careful 
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD 

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Although this set is a gimmicky one, it works well when used properly. It is particularly useful on a stall team as the main purpose of this set is to wear down Pokemon using Curse and Will-O-Wisp. Since Spiritomb has three immunities and no weaknesses, it forces a lot of switches. Pursuit is therefore the preferred STAB move as its power doubles when the target switches out. This allows Spiritomb to trap various early and late game threats such as Gengar, Starmie, and Azelf, which are all weak to Pursuit. Spiritomb can also take on Pokemon that set-up later in the game, such as Snorlax and Suicune, with this set as it can wear them down very quickly with both Curse and Will-O-Wisp. This is also very helpful to stall teams which are unable to deal with set up Pokemon, especially when they are the last Pokemon left and cannot be phazed. These traits are the reasons to consider using Spiritomb over Rotom-A.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The EV spread maximizes Spiritomb's Special Defense because Will-O-Wisp halves the burnt target's Attack, reducing the need to have a high Defense EVs investment. Shadow Ball with Calm nature can be used over Pursuit with Careful nature. Calm nature also helps in increasing Spiritomb's special bulk. However, Pursuit with a Careful nature is usually the better option.</p>

<p>A cleric is highly recommended as this set does not carry Sleep Talk, leaving Spiritomb a setup bait as it sleeps for two turns after using Rest. Since Spiritomb often replaces Rotom-A, most teams do not have a reliable way to take down Skarmory and Gyarados. Therefore a Choice Scarf Jirachi with ThunderPunch helps in solving this problem. Gyarados has to be wary of Will-O-Wisp but it can hold a Lum Berry to cure its burn. A Rapid Spinner helps Spiritomb a lot because for Spiritomb to set up a Curse, it will need to be at a substantial amount of health. As far as teammates go, Blissey is a great option as it can wake Spiritomb from its slumber after the latter uses Rest or pass Wishes to Spiritomb. Several physical walls such as Steelix, Skarmory, and Forretress all make good teammates. They can also sponge physical attacks from foes which are not affected by Will-O-Wisp or have the Guts ability.</p> 

[Other Options] 

<p>Sucker Punch is Spiritomb's strongest priority move, but is unreliable and has low PP, making it a bad choice for a mono-attacking option; Shadow Sneak might be considered for its reliability, but it is too weak to deal significant damage. Pain Split can be used to recover health as well as inflict damage, but Rest is more reliable. Taunt prevents Pokemon from setting up entry hazards and shuts down opposing walls. A Trick + Choice item set can be used to mess up various walls, though several other Pokemon outclass Spiritomb for this role. Finally, Spiritomb has boosting options in Calm Mind and Nasty Plot, but it's sadly too slow to sweep effectively.</p>

[Checks and Counters] 

<p>Heatran walks all over Spiritomb, as it resists both Shadow Ball and Dark Pulse while taking even Hidden Power Fighting comfortably, gets a Flash Fire boost from Will-O-Wisp, and can take it out with its powerful Fire-type attacks. Setup sweepers with Taunt, such as Gyarados, do a great job of checking Spiritomb as well, as they can shut it down completely and proceed to set up on it. Blissey doesn't mind taking a Will-O-Wisp thanks to Natural Cure, and laughs at Spiritomb's other attacks as well, though it can only slap a Toxic back on Spiritomb. Choice Band users such as Metagross, Dragonite, and Scizor can muscle through weakened Spiritomb with their sheer power, though they need to be careful when switching in, as Will-O-Wisp will severely cripple them. Finally, if Spiritomb lacks Taunt, Pokemon such as Skarmory and Forretress can freely switch in and use it as setup bait.</p>