[Overview]

<p>While Swampert's movepool upgrades from the previous generation are not numerous, they are very significant, and make Swampert into the top-tier Pokemon he is today. Swampert is one of the most solid defensive Pokemon in the OU tier, as he is capable of effectively setting up Stealth Rock, attacking, and defending. His good defensive typing leaves him with only one weakness—Grass-type moves—that can be easily played around through proper team support. While powerful special attacks may hurt Swampert somewhat, he can take most neutral hits with aplomb, and his resistance to Rock- and Fire-type attacks, as well as immunity to Electric-type attacks, grants him plenty of opportunities to switch in. Overall, Swampert is a great choice for any OU team, and is a defensive threat to prepare for.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Roar / Protect / Surf
item: Leftovers
nature: Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 216 Def / 40 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to his good typing, decent attacking stats, high Defense, and access to Stealth Rock, Swampert makes both a great lead and an exceptional mid-game defensive Pokemon. He is capable of taking on many popular threats, such as Tyranitar, with ease, and can serve as a great defensive pivot.</p>

<p>Swampert is an exceptional Stealth Rock user. With his high Defense and resistances to popular attacking types like Rock and Fire, he finds plenty of opportunities to set up Stealth Rock. Earthquake is used in the second moveslot as it is Swampert's best STAB move, hitting anyone who doesn't resist it for a decent chunk of damage. Ice Beam is used in the third moveslot to enable Swampert to OHKO Flygon, Gliscor, and Dragonite switch-ins after Stealth Rock damage. It also allows him to hit Grass-type switch-ins, such as Shaymin, for super effective damage, though Swampert must switch out on the next turn. There are several viable options that Swampert can use in the final moveslot. Roar is the primary option as it can be used to scout the opposing team, as well as rack up residual damage from Stealth Rock. Protect can be used as a scouting move, and can also aid Swampert in blocking Explosion from Metagross and Azelf leads; it also gives Swampert an extra turn to recover health with Leftovers. Surf can be used if you'd like a secondary STAB option for Swampert to use, though you lose out on some of Swampert's defensive utility if you choose not to use a support move in the fourth moveslot.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As far as other options go, Swampert has a few choices. Stone Edge can be used in place of Ice Beam as it allows Swampert to dish out respectable damage to Gyarados switch-ins while still dealing healthy damage to Dragonite. Toxic can be used in the final moveslot to spread around status and support the team better, but in terms of team support, the options that are already listed above are usually the superior choices.</p>

<p>The Defense EVs on this set grant Swampert exceptional physical bulk, letting him take most resisted and neutral physical attacks with ease. 252 HP EVs give Swampert more all-around bulk while keeping him from taking extra residual damage from Spikes and 40 Special Defense EVs are used to allow Swampert to take neutral and resisted special attacks, such as Dragonite's Draco Meteor and Heatran's Fire Blast, more easily. An alternate EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA can be used to maximize Swampert's physical bulk, but the final Defense EVs don't accomplish anything specific and save Swampert less often.</p>

<p>Seeing as Swampert can be successfully used on almost any type of team, he has many viable teammates. Pokemon such as Scizor and Heatran can be used to compensate for his unfortunate 4x weakness to Grass-type moves. Both of the aforementioned teammates can take on Celebi and Shaymin, two of the biggest threats to Swampert, though they must watch out for Hidden Power Fire and Earth Power, respectively. On more defensive teams, Blissey makes a wonderful teammate for Swampert, as she can sponge special attacks that could otherwise spell doom for the mud fish Pokemon. She can also pass Wish to Swampert, keeping his health high; seeing as Swampert has no instant recovery move to work with, Wish support can be a tremendous blessing. Mixed Dragonite and Infernape can take advantage of the Stealth Rock that Swampert sets up by forcing the opponent to switch through offensive pressure, which hurts the opposing team and gives your team offensive momentum.</p>

[SET]
name: Curse
move 1: Curse
move 2: Earthquake / Waterfall
move 3: Avalanche / Sleep Talk
move 4: Rest
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 40 Def / 216 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to access to Curse and a good physical movepool, Swampert can be a dangerous boosting tank when used correctly. With only one weakness, solid defensive stats, and a handful of resistances, Swampert can set up on many popular OU Pokemon, making him a solid choice for the role of a bulky sweeper.</p>

<p>Curse allows Swampert to boost both his Attack and Defense in one turn, turning him into an immediate threat. While Curse does lower Swampert's Speed, this is usually inconsequential, as he isn't exactly fast to begin with. Earthquake is the primary option in the second moveslot as it is a consistent form of STAB that deals heavy damage to anyone who is not resistant or immune to it. However, Waterfall can be used if you'd like to hit Pokemon who are immune to Earthquake, such as Skarmory and Rotom-A. Avalanche is the best choice in the third moveslot, enabling Swampert to dish out tremendous damage to threats such as Dragonite and Gliscor after a Curse. Sleep Talk can be used instead, however, as it allows Swampert to retain his usefulness while asleep after using Rest. Speaking of Rest, it is used in the fourth moveslot as a means of recovering HP, increasing his longevity and allowing him to keep his sweep going.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Chesto Berry can be used as the item to allow Swampert to immediately wake up from the sleep caused by Rest, but Leftovers is a more dependable item choice. A mono-attacker Curse set can be used with a moveset of Curse, Waterfall, Rest, and Sleep Talk, but this leaves Swampert walled by many Pokemon, and easily set up on by others. You can also run a set with Curse + three attacking moves. If you choose to do this, then you should use an Adamant nature with 208 Attack EVs, giving Swampert a good chance of OHKOing 252/220+ Calm Mind + Wish Jirachi after a Curse boost. However, such a set takes away from Swampert's longevity considerably.</p>

<p>The EV spread on this set is very straightforward. 252 HP EVs are used to maximize Swampert's all-around bulk. 216 Special Defense EVs and a Careful nature allow Swampert to take neutral and resisted special attacks very well. The remaining EVs are dumped into Defense, and allow Swampert to take a lot of powerful physical attacks after a few Curse boosts.</p>

<p>Good teammates for this set include Pokemon who can switch in on powerful special attacks, such as Celebi's Leaf Storm, which would otherwise KO Swampert. Blissey is a good teammate for this reason, capable of switching in on almost any special attack thanks to her astronomical HP and Special Defense stats. She can also pass Wish to Swampert, keeping his HP high before he sets up. Steel-type Pokemon, such as Heatran and Scizor, are also great teammates for this Swampert, as they pack resistances to the special attacks Swampert doesn't want to take, namely Shaymin's Seed Flare and Dragonite's Draco Meteor. A Rapid Spin user can get rid of the Spikes that will otherwise make it tough for Swampert to set up, so using one alongside him can be a good idea. Forretress makes a great choice for this role as he can also set up Toxic Spikes, allowing Swampert to stall out some potential counters while setting up. Life Orb Shaymin makes a good partner for this set as it can destroy bulky Water-types, who may otherwise cause this set problems, with its STAB Seed Flare.</p>

[SET]
name: RestTalk
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Roar / Stone Edge / Avalanche
item: Leftovers
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 40 Atk / 216 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Swampert is a wonderful physical tank and defensive Pokemon, his lack of a reliable recovery move significantly hampers his tanking abilities. This set aims to remedy said problem by utilizing a combination of Rest and Sleep Talk, allowing Swampert to restore his health without becoming setup fodder or a sitting duck.</p>

<p>Earthquake is used in the first moveslot as it is Swampert's best STAB move, allowing him to hit most Steel-types as well as several common Pokemon for consistent damage. Roar is the main choice in the second moveslot for letting Swampert phaze the opposing team, racking up residual damage from entry hazards while scouting. It also prevents Swampert from becoming setup fodder for dangerous sweepers, such as Calm Mind Suicune. Stone Edge can also be used in the second moveslot for hitting Gyarados and providing Swampert with the infamous QuakeEdge attacking combination, but Avalanche can be used to hit Dragonite, Gliscor, and Flygon for heavy damage. Rest is used in the third moveslot to allow Swampert to recover his HP, while Sleep Talk is used in the fourth moveslot so that Swampert is still capable of being useful while asleep.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Waterfall can be used over Earthquake as an alternate STAB move, but Earthquake has more power and gets better coverage alongside the other moves on the set, often making Waterfall an inferior choice overall.</p>

<p>The EVs on this set serve a specific purpose in allowing Swampert to take attacks. The nature, as well as the HP and Defense EVs, ensure that Swampert will never be 2HKOed by Choice Band Tyranitar's Crunch or OHKOed by Dragon Dance Dragonite's +1 Outrage, and lets him retaliate with Earthquake and Avalanche, respectively. The remaining EVs are placed in Attack to give Swampert's moves a slight power boost, but you can redirect them to Special Defense if you want Swampert to be able to take on special attackers a bit more easily.</p>

<p>A Rapid Spin user makes a great teammate for Swampert, as they can rid the field of entry hazards, namely Spikes, that will otherwise take a huge toll on Swampert's survivability. Forretress makes a great choice, as he packs a 4x resistance to Grass-type moves and can set up Toxic Spikes, which facilitates Swampert's stalling. He can also set up Spikes, increasing the residual damage inflicted on the opponent. Any Pokemon who possesses a 4x resistance to Grass-type moves is a welcome teammate for this set; good choices include Scizor and Heatran, as they are capable of taking out the Grass-type Pokemon, such as Celebi and Shaymin, whom this set detests. Celebi and Shaymin themselves make great teammates for this set, as they are capable of taking on the physically defensive Pokemon whom this set cannot break past, such as Hippowdon and Machamp.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Waterfall / Aqua Tail
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Ice Punch
item: Choice Band
nature: Adamant
evs: 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is a rather unexpected set that allows Swampert to hit Pokemon whom he usually cannot hurt for significant damage. This set's main selling point is its surprise value; however, you must have good prediction skills in order to use it successfully. A single incorrect prediction could be catastrophic when using this Swampert, so tread carefully.</p>

<p>Waterfall and Earthquake are used on this set to form a solid STAB duo that allows Swampert to hit many common OU Pokemon for large amounts of damage. However, if you want more power and the ability to 2HKO specially defensive Skarmory, then you can use Aqua Tail instead of Waterfall. Aqua Tail's only drawback is its lower accuracy, which can potentially mean the difference between a win and a loss; stick to Waterfall if you're looking for consistency. Stone Edge is used in the third moveslot so that Swampert has a way to heavily damage the omnipresent Gyarados, who will otherwise take a pittance from Swampert's attacks. Ice Punch is used in the final slot, granting Swampert valuable OHKOs on Dragonite and Flygon. It can also hit Celebi and Shaymin on the switch-in, though Swampert must immediately switch out the next turn.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Superpower can be used over Ice Punch in the final moveslot as it gives Swampert good neutral coverage in tandem with his other moves. However, the Attack and Defense drops that come after using it will often force Swampert to switch out the next turn, an unattractive prospect.</p>

<p>Attack is maximized to allow Swampert to hit as hard as possible. 172 HP EVs prevent Swampert from being 3HKOed by neutral-natured Heatran's STAB Fire Blast, and add to Swampert's overall bulk. 84 Speed EVs allow Swampert to outspeed 0 Speed Skarmory, but you may want to invest more to account for faster Skarmory.</p>

<p>As this Swampert will force a lot of switches, it is important to provide him with entry hazard support. Heatran makes a great teammate for this reason, as he is able to consistently set up Stealth Rock. He also packs a 4x resistance to the Grass-type moves that will otherwise OHKO Swampert in a flash. Spikes support can be provided by Forretress, who is also capable of using Rapid Spin to get rid of the opposing team's entry hazards, allowing Swampert to switch in much more easily. As far as offensive partners for this set go, Choice Scarf Flygon makes a great teammate, as he is capable of revenge killing many dangerous Pokemon who will attempt to set up on this Swampert, namely Dragon Dance Dragonite and Gyarados. It's also a great idea to have a few solid switch-ins to Grass-type moves on your team. The aforementioned Heatran and Forretress both pack 4x resistances to Grass, as does Scizor, whose powerful U-turn can be used to scout the opposing team and look for possible Swampert counters.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Swampert's movepool isn't particularly vast, so he doesn't have many other decent options to work with. Something interesting to note is that Swampert learns both Counter and Mirror Coat. While these could potentially be used to nab a surprise KO on unsuspecting attackers, they will be a waste of a moveslot if you fail to predict correctly, and lose their effectiveness after Swampert uses them once; as such, you're often better off sticking to his more dependable moves. Swampert can utilize a combination of Substitute + Focus Punch as he creates 101 HP Substitutes, making him a perfect Blissey counter; however, this strategy is better left to other Pokemon, as Substitute's HP-sapping effect is rather counterproductive. Swampert's decent base 85 Special Attack stat means that he can run a Choice Specs set with Surf, Earth Power, Ice Beam, and Hidden Power Electric, but this set is inferior to other special attackers, as the only thing it has going for it is surprise value. Finally, Swampert can be a good support Pokemon to use on a Rain Dance team, as many Rain Dance teams struggle with Tyranitar, to whom Swampert is a great counter. However, Swampert has more worthwhile options to use.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Swampert's most obvious counters are Grass-type Pokemon. Celebi and Shaymin both can shrug off an Ice Beam with ease; Celebi has the option of setting up multiple Calm Minds or KOing Swampert immediately with Grass Knot or Leaf Storm, while Shaymin eviscerates Swampert with a STAB Seed Flare. Breloom also beats Swampert with little difficulty as it can either Seed Bomb Swampert for the outright OHKO, or can opt to use it as a set-up fodder by using Spore and then setting up a Substitute. Roserade also has a field day with Swampert as it has the option of either going for the KO or setting up either Spikes or Toxic Spikes. All of these Pokemon must be wary of a Choice Band Ice Punch though, as it deals major damage. Abomasnow can beat Swampert through the use of a STAB Wood Hammer, or can choose to wear Swampert down with the combination of Leech Seed and Substitute. Unexpected Grass moves can rain on Zapdos's day, as its 4x Grass weakness causes even unSTABed Grass moves to hurt. Zapdos and Raikou with Hidden Power Grass deal major damage to Swampert, although Raikou must be wary of Earthquake. Infernape and Jirachi make good use of Grass Knot, targeting Swampert's high weight and low Special Defense, but must also watch out for Earthquake.</p>

<p>Bulky Water-types have no problem dealing with Swampert, as they resist Ice Beam and take minimal damage from Earthquake. Suicune is able to set up multiple Calm Minds on Swampert and deal heavy damage with Surf. Vaporean with Toxic is a major thorn in Swampert's side, as it is able to outstall Swampert with Wish and Protect once it statuses it. Vaporean without Toxic also beats Swampert one-on-one, although without Toxic, Swampert is able to switch out without repercussion. Defensive Starmie is able to spin away the Stealth Rock Swampert sets up, and can then smash it with Surf while recovering off any damage Swampert inflicts. Taunt Dragon Dance Gyarados sets up on Swampert, prevents it from using Roar with Taunt, and takes pitiful damage from Ice Beam.</p>

<p>Swampert is horribly vulnerable to essentially all Spikes users, and although these users can't OHKO Swampert, they accomplish their roles as entry hazard setters. Skarmory sets up Spikes with ease on Swampert as it not able to harm Skarmory with any of its moves. Skarmory with Taunt is an even better counter as it prevents Swampert from roaring it out before it can set up multiple layers of Spikes. Forretress can spin away the Stealth Rock Swampert sets up, while at the same time is able to set up multiple layers of Spikes or Toxic Spikes. As stated earlier, Roserade can set up both Spikes or Toxic Spikes, or can opt for the OHKO. Smeargle can Spore Swampert and then set up Spikes, while also being able to use Taunt to prevent Swampert from setting up Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>Because Swampert has no form of reliable recovery, it desperately hates status. As such, Rotom-A is a good counter to Swampert as not only will Swampert be unable to harm it, but it is able to burn Swampert with Will-o-Wisp. Dusknoir does much of the same that Rotom-A does, however Dusknoir is vulnerable to being hit by Earthquake. Although Blissey is not the ideal Swampert counter, it can use Toxic to cripple Swampert and then proceed to outstall it through the usage of healing. In general, if you can get some sort of status on Swampert, its defensive abilities are greatly reduced and it is a much easier threat to deal with.</p>