[Overview]

<p>Weezing is a very bulky Pokemon, and when used properly, it can stop a lot of physical sweepers in the OU tier. The only thing holding Weezing back from being a top-tier defensive Pokemon is its poor Special Defense and rather disappointing HP stat. While the abundance of special attackers like Gengar and Starmie does somewhat reduce Weezing's usefulness, its ability to cripple common physical threats like Tyranitar and Scizor is wonderful. Overall, don't let Weezing's negative traits get you down, as Weezing can distribute burns with Will-O-Wisp and stop just about every physical attacker in the tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Fire Blast
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Pain Split
move 4: Will-O-Wisp / Taunt / Explosion
item: Leftovers
ability: Levitate
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Weezing is a great Pokemon on a team that struggles with physical attackers; while its fantastic base 120 Defense stat is let down somewhat by its rather poor base 65 HP stat, Weezing is still quite an impressive physical wall, being able to check some huge threats like Dragon Dance Gyarados and Swords Dance Lucario. Weezing's Poison-typing coupled with its ability, Levitate, means that it is only weak to one type of attack: Psychic. Psychic-type attacks are extremely uncommon in the OU environment, however, so most of the time Weezing will only be taking neutral hits, allowing it to stay alive for much longer. Weezing can easily switch in on the common Earthquakes in the OU tier and then proceed to cripple the opposing team with its disrupting support moves and physical girth.</p>

<p>Fire Blast is a must on Weezing as it allows it to break past the many common Steel-type Pokemon found in OU. Thunderbolt is used so that Weezing has a chance against the tier's bulky Water-type Pokemon, most notably Gyarados, who Weezing counters extremely well. Pain Split allows Weezing to have some form of recovery, albeit a slightly unreliable one. There are several options in the last slot. Will-O-Wisp is a good choice, as it allows Weezing to easily burn and thereby cripple any physical sweepers.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Flamethrower can also be used in that slot if you are more interested in accuracy over power; Fire Blast is generally the superior option, however, as you miss out on some KOes with Flamethrower. For instance, you are unable to 2HKO Agility Metagross with Flamethrower, while you will always 2HKO with Fire Blast, even without Stealth Rock. The same holds true for Choice Scarf Jirachi: you cannot 2HKO it with Flamethrower, while with Fire Blast you will always 2HKO. Taunt can be used in the final slot for stopping Pokemon like Blissey from giving you problems. Explosion can also be used as well if you're looking for Weezing to do some heavy damage, but one should not just randomly sacrifice Weezing, as it can mean the difference between a win or a loss.</p>

<p>The EVs allow Weezing to be as physically bulky as possible. 60 EVs can be taken out of Defense and placed into Special Attack, however, if you want Weezing to always be able to 2HKO standard 252 HP / 0 SpD Metagross after Stealth Rock damage with Fire Blast. Leftovers is the preferred item, as while Black Sludge can be used to hurt opposing Trick users, it can also be tricked back to one of the non-Poison members of your team.</p>

<p>Any Pokemon who can sponge special attacks well makes a great partner for Weezing. Weezing's Defense may be great, but its Special Defense is sorely lacking. Jirachi and Blissey make good partners as they both have enormous Special Defense stats and can easily switch in on many common special attacks that are directed at Weezing. Having a Pokemon to take on Heatran can be a good idea as well, as Heatran can completely wall Weezing with ease, and even get a free Flash Fire boost off of its Fire-type attacks. Bulky Water-types like Vaporeon and Suicune can take on Heatran quite easily; Vaporeon gets a special mention as it can use Wish to potentially heal Weezing.</p>

<p>Weezing is particularly talented at taking out physical attackers either by KOing them or crippling them with Will-O-Wisp; as such, Pokemon who can take advantage of physical attackers being taken out of the match work well as partners for Weezing. Life Orb Gengar variants get a special mention as they can be extremely fearsome sweepers without Scizor to worry about. Other setup sweepers like Dragon Dance Dragonite enjoy Steel-types being taken out of the match early, and Weezing can easily take care of any Steel-type Pokemon not named Heatran. If your team is lacking an answer to Swords Dance Lucario, Dragon Dance Gyarados, or other fearsome physical sweepers, then Weezing is a prime candidate. The main thing that it has going for it over other "countering utility" Pokemon is that it is not weak to Pursuit. Many Pokemon who are designed to take out the aforementioned threats, such as Choice Scarf Rotom-A, are very prone to Pursuit users. Weezing is not limited by a Pursuit weakness, and as such, is a very reliable Pokemon to take care of said physical threats.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Sludge Bomb may be a good STAB move, but Poison is a truly terrible attacking type, especially in OU. Memento can be used if you are prepared to sacrifice Weezing for a teammate's benefit; while it will give a teammate a nice opportunity to set up, there are much better users of the move, such as Uxie and Jumpluff. The higher Speed stat of these Pokemon allow them to have a much easier time using Memento before the opposing Pokemon KOes them. Haze can be useful in order to stop set-up sweepers, such as Dragon Dance Dragonite and Dragon Dance Tyranitar, but Weezing can easily handle most physical set-up sweepers in the tier with either an attacking move or Will-O-Wisp. Destiny Bond can be useful in some situations, but thanks to Weezing's pitiful speed, there are generally much better users of the move, such as Gengar and Froslass. A Rest + Sleep Talking set could be viable on Weezing, but with only two other moves to work with, Weezing cannot be as diverse and effective as it can with another set. Also, Weezing's low Special Defense means that even with instant recovery in RestTalking, it will die easily to a couple of powerful special attacks. Spite can actually be relatively useful on Weezing as it allows it to stall out Choice item users like Tyranitar and Scizor, but these Pokemon will generally switch out at the sight of Weezing in the first place, fearing a Will-O-Wisp. A Choice Specs set is decent on Weezing thanks to its large special movepool, but the fact that Weezing lacks a reliable form of STAB (Sludge Bomb's coverage is not very good in the OU tier with the prevalence of Steel-type Pokemon) hurts it.</p> 

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Heatran can easily switch in on Weezing's Fire Blast or Will-O-Wisp to gain a Flash Fire boost, and from there can OHKO Weezing with Fire Blast. Substitute variants of Heatran can set up on Weezing easily, as Weezing can do little to harm Heatran in the meantime with its attacks. Any powerful special attacker can KO Weezing pretty easily, and Weezing has no business staying in on these Pokemon, as a teammate can take the attack much more easily than Weezing. RestTalking Pokemon like CroCune and Machamp can use Weezing as setup fodder, as with RestTalk, they can absorb Will-O-Wisp all day.</p>