[Overview]

<p>Do not anger Arceus, lest you dare to invoke the cruel punishment of its burning rage. When in its fiery guise, Arceus will not hesitate to send anything that stands in its way to fry for eternity in the burning lakes of fire for which the underworld is so well known. Its combination of speed, bulk, instant recovery, ability to boost its strength to unimaginable levels, and less of a care for petty magical stones that would make even the most majestic Ho-Oh think twice about coming to battle truly set Fire Arceus a cut above its fellow Fire-types. However, while Arceus is in this enraged state, it cares less about trying to defend itself, which is why the flaming form of Arceus is not as adept defensively as the other types. Nevertheless, if you dare to challenge Arceus in its red-hot form, pray that the sun is not shining, or else the all-consuming flames of his wrath will leave even the mightiest of opposition standing as nothing more than a mere wisp of smoke in the wind.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment / Fire Blast
move 3: Thunder / Thunderbolt
move 4: Recover
item: Flame Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 100 HP / 100 Def / 100 SpA / 100 SpD / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unfortunately, the Fire-type isn't that great defensively, riddling Arceus with weaknesses to Water-, Ground-, and Rock-type attacks, as well as a weakness to Stealth Rock and a vulnerability to Toxic Spikes. However, Fire is quite potent offensively, and Arceus's large number of coverage moves complement STAB Fire-type attacks very well. When combined with Calm Mind and sunlight, Arceus's STAB Judgment will burn enormous chunks of health from even the bulkiest foes, notably the ubiquitous Steel-types in Ubers.</p>

<p>Although Judgment is preferred as the STAB move of choice for its excellent mix of power and reliability, Fire Blast can also be used if you want significantly more power. Be wary though, as Fire Blast's accuracy is unreliable and it only has half the PP of Judgment, which can hurt Arceus's chances of winning a Calm Mind war. Thunder will easily 2HKO Kyogre, Manaphy, and Ho-Oh after a Calm Mind boost. However, Thunder has pitiful accuracy in the sunlight, so Thunderbolt presents a more reliable alternative to still gash Kyogre and Ho-Oh badly after a Calm Mind; unfortunately, Thunderbolt has significantly less power than Thunder. Recover is great for Arceus as it is very bulky despite its forgettable defensive typing, and Recover helps to mitigate damage taken from Stealth Rock.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Arceus has several other moves that can work over Recover if you would prefer an all-out offensive approach. Arceus can create 101 HP Substitutes, which allows it to set up on Blissey because Seismic Toss will not break its Substitutes in one hit. As a bonus, Arceus also gains status protection from using Substitute. Spacial Rend allows Arceus to do tons of damage to Garchomp, Rayquaza, and Palkia that think they can switch in for a free set-up. Spacial Rend also has a high critical hit rate, which can be beneficial to Arceus should it find itself in a Calm Mind war. Focus Blast will smash Tyranitar and Heatran to bits, while doing a nice bit of damage to Blissey after a few Calm Minds. However, it should be noted that without Recover, Arceus will not be able to take nearly as much punishment, especially if Stealth Rock is up on your side of the field.</p>

<p>Groudon is an excellent teammate for Fire Arceus. Not only does it set up the sunlight that makes this set so potent, it can also set up Stealth Rock, which will allow Arceus to deal with Ho-Oh much more easily, and stands as a great counter to Blissey, Garchomp, Rock Arceus, and Tyranitar, all of which counter Fire Arceus quite effectively. Rapid Spin support from Forretress is also a massive boon considering that Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes greatly hinder this Arceus. Giratina-O is also recommended as a teammate to help keep entry hazards up on the opponent's side of the field, which is a huge help against Ho-Oh.</p>

<p>Fire Arceus has massive problems with Kyogre, Latios, Latias, and the aforementioned Blissey. Defensive Heatran with Toxic can also check Fire Arceus with Taunt and Toxic, although a boosted Thunder will do quite a bit. The aforementioned Giratina-O can easily lure in and KO Heatran with a surprise Earthquake, and its powerful physical attacks make it a great check for Blissey. Latias, thanks to her enormous Special Defense and powerful Thunder, is an excellent counter to Kyogre and Heatran. Scizor can use its powerful STAB U-turn to KO; it can also weaken or KO the trio with Pursuit if they switch out. Metagross can fulfill a similar role, and it has the bonus of resisting the Rock-type attacks that will inevitably be thrown Arceus's way. Tickle Wobbuffet combined with a user of Pursuit is also a near foolproof way of KOing Blissey; Wobbuffet can also trap and KO Latios and Latias with Mirror Coat. Wobbuffet is a big help to Fire Arceus in general thanks to Encore, which can be used to clear a path for Fire Arceus to start setting up with Calm Mind. Arceus also covers Wobbuffet's weakness to Bug-type attacks.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Overheat allows Arceus to do insane damage in one turn, but the Special Attack drop is somewhat counterproductive with Calm Mind. Ice Beam always OHKOes Garchomp switch-ins while providing good coverage alongside Arceus's STAB Judgment + Electric-type move of choice. Grass Knot allows Arceus to hit Kyogre and Tyranitar with one attack, but otherwise its coverage is forgettable and it makes Arceus even more vulnerable to Ho-Oh and Heatran. Earth Power smashes Heatran to pieces while still 2HKOing Tyranitar after a Calm Mind, and it also has the bonus of hitting opposing Fire and Rock Arceus, but Ho-Oh is still an issue. Arceus also has access to Cosmic Power, Roar, Refresh, and Iron Defense for a more defensively minded set up, but pure Fire typing isn't the best defensively, and generally other Arceus types can use these moves much more effectively.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Blissey can easily handle Arceus with Toxic if it does not have Substitute. Tyranitar resists Fire-type attacks, takes little damage from Thunder, and can easily KO Arceus with Stone Edge. Tyranitar, however, needs to be wary of Focus Blast and Earth Power. Kyogre can easily drown Arceus with a STAB rain-boosted Surf while simultaneously canceling out the sunlight thanks to Drizzle. Choice Scarf Kyogre is a particular issue since it is faster than Arceus; however, Kyogre can't switch into repeated Thunders. Garchomp is faster than Arceus, resists Judgment, is immune to Thunder, and will quickly defeat it with Earthquake. Ho-Oh can also tank a Thunder with ease and destroy Arceus with Earthquake. Latios and Latias will also defeat Arceus one-on-one in a Calm Mind war unless Arceus gets a critical hit. Heatran equipped with Taunt and Toxic can defeat this Arceus if it lacks Focus Blast or Earth Power, although Heatran will not enjoy a boosted Thunder. Finally, Rock Arceus can also counter Fire Arceus due to its natural type advantage.</p>