[Overview]

<p>With the Draco Plate equipped, the Creator's blood infuses with the magical power of His draconian offspring, His hide hardens into diamond-esque scales, and He commands the battlefield with a terrifying regality. Arceus's Dragon Judgment rains down on His victims with a nigh-unresistable power; only His Steel-clad children may withstand His awesome onslaught, though only until the Master torches them with a mighty Overheat. Kneel in honor of the most powerful of Arceus types, lest you become the next tortured victim of His wrath!</p>
   
[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Substitute
move 4: Recover
item: Draco Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 100 HP / 100 Def / 100 SpA / 100 SpD / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Dragon Arceus has the ideal combination of attributes for a Calm Mind user. Its powerful STAB Judgment has fantastic coverage, allowing it to easily tear through teams. Its decent bulk, high Speed, and access to Recover are just icing on the cake. Defensive teams in particular will have serious problems with this set, as the Substitutes Arceus creates cannot be broken by a Seismic Toss from Blissey.</p>

<p>Dragon Arceus has a good set of resistances to complement its bulk, and it can manufacture plenty of opportunities to switch in and set up. Its powerful STAB Judgment hits many Pokemon in the tier for super effective damage, while most of the common Pokemon that resist it are simply setup fodder. Recover is a useful tool that allows Arceus to shake off damage and completely shut down several common threats, such as Groudon. Substitute completes the set; one of its major functions is to block status, but it is also useful for scouting switch-ins. Garchomp, Latias, and Latios often hope to get in for free on a Calm Mind, but Substitute allows Dragon Arceus to OHKO the former and dent the latter two with Judgment.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Fire Blast and Flamethrower are options over Substitute, allowing Dragon Arceus to fry Steel-type Pokemon such as Scizor. With Fire- and Dragon-type attacks in its arsenal, Arceus has perfect neutral coverage against every single Pokemon bar Heatran, but becomes more vulnerable to status, such as the crippling Toxic, which could easily end Arceus's sweep. Refresh can also be used to counteract Toxic Spikes, but Dragon Arceus will have trouble setting up without Substitute, as Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Garchomp can easily come in to OHKO with Outrage. If Refresh is not used, then a Rapid Spinner can greatly benefit Dragon Arceus. Forretress is the best spinner by far thanks to its great typing and the ability to set up its own entry hazards.</p> 

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Dragon Claw
move 3: Earthquake / Overheat
move 4: Recover
item: Draco Plate
nature: Jolly
evs: 100 HP / 100 Atk / 100 Def / 100 SpD / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>At first glance, Swords Dance Dragon Arceus may seem to be outclassed by Rayquaza, who can hit harder due to its higher base Attack, unrestricted EVs, and Life Orb. However, Dragon Arceus has a few niches that prevent it from being eclipsed by the competition. Dragon Arceus has access to Recover and quite a lot of bulk, which means it can easily nab multiple Swords Dances. Thanks to its extra bulk, it does not require as much team support as Rayquaza, who often has to rely on Wobbuffet to allow it to set up; Arceus also has a higher Speed stat, is not weak to Stealth Rock, and does not get easily knocked out by random Ice attacks such as Ice Shard. Dragon Claw and Earthquake have excellent coverage, hitting every Pokemon bar Skarmory for neutral damage. Overheat is an option over Earthquake, allowing Arceus to easily knock out Forretress and heavily damage Skarmory.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Dragon Claw is used over Outrage to gain the most from Recover, and emphasizes Arceus as a bulky sweeper. Outrage can be used for more power, but it makes Arceus easy to revenge kill, and the confusion hurts, especially after a couple of Swords Dances. Recover allows Arceus to take advantage of its bulk and differentiate itself from Rayquaza. Arceus can make use of ExtremeSpeed, but this means losing out on either valuable coverage or bulk, both of which are very important in setting up a successful Dragon Arceus sweep. Substitute can be used over Earthquake or Overheat in order to overcome checks such as Soul Dew Latias, though the loss in coverage is not good. A Jolly nature allows Arceus to outspeed non-Choice Scarfed Timid Palkia and anything below that. Adamant is not recommended even with ExtremeSpeed as this will make Arceus slower than positive-natured base 90 Speed Pokemon such as Dialga, which can easily dispose of Dragon Arceus.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Dragon Arceus, like all other Arceus, has a very large movepool. However, most of the moves are outclassed, and are better off on another Arceus forme. Cosmic Power is a viable option on the Swords Dance set, making Arceus almost impossible to take down after just one or two boosts. After that, Dragon Arceus can set up multiple Swords Dances, healing with Recover when low on health. Thunder Wave, Toxic, and Will-O-Wisp are all unexpected options that allow Dragon Arceus to cripple an opposing counter. It also has access to Roar, which allows Arceus to phaze a setup sweeper, and Perish Song, which prevents last Pokemon sweeps from the likes of RestTalk Dialga. Finally, dual screens can be used to allow other Pokemon to set up, but dedicated support Pokemon such as Uxie can perform that job much better.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Steel-type Pokemon may seem like they can do well against Calm Mind Dragon Arceus, but unfortunately, most of them cannot do significant enough damage to it. For example, 56 Attack Choice Band Scizor only manages to deal 37.2% maximum, while Dragon Arceus can set up Calm Mind and heal itself with Recover as needed. Adamant max Attack Choice Band Metagross is a good counter, being able to 2HKO Dragon Arceus with Meteor Mash, but boosted Judgments will still do reasonable damage in return. Choice Scarf Garchomp can OHKO Dragon Arceus with Outrage, but it will get knocked out first if Garchomp switches in on a Substitute. Latias can deal around 75% to Dragon Arceus with Draco Meteor after a Calm Mind, and will not get OHKOed by Judgment thanks to Soul Dew boosting its already high Special Defense stat. Latios can switch in on a Calm Mind and OHKO Dragon Arceus with Draco Meteor even after the boost, but must watch out for a predicted Substitute. Swords Dance Dragon Arceus is harder to counter and, like Rayquaza, usually has to be revenge killed. 188 Speed Timid Lugia can outspeed Arceus, set up a Reflect, and fire off Ice Beams, while being able to PP stall with Pressure and Roost. Jolly Garchomp can survive a +2 ExtremeSpeed from Dragon Arceus and KO back with Outrage. Swords Dance Dragon Arceus suffers from moveslot syndrome, meaning if it lacks Overheat, Skarmory can come in and set up entry hazards or phaze it, while Heatran can easily come in and hit Dragon Arceus hard with Dragon Pulse or Explosion if it does not carry Earthquake.</p>