[Overview]
 
<p>From the raging maelstrom rises Water Arceus. As a Water-type, Arceus must compete with the great creator of the seas, Kyogre. While the mighty Arceus may not have Kyogre's sheer power, Arceus does have many glorious qualities. Arceus's ability to move like a raging torrent is its biggest advantage, as it is able to outpace both the space-bending Palkia and the ruler of the air, Rayquaza. With Recover, Arceus can repair any wound inflicted upon its majestic form, unlike Kyogre, who is forced to use Rest to heal. Arceus is also much more devastating as a physical attacker thanks to the great Swords Dance. While Water Arceus and Kyogre may seem like rivals, one should not underestimate their offensive prowess on the same team. With Kyogre's eternal rain on the battlefield, the power of Arceus's own Water-type moves is increased to a terrifying level. Be wary against this form of the omnipotent Arceus or face its divine wrath in the form of a torrential flood that will wash all but the strongest away.</p>
 
[SET] 
name: Swords Dance 
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Waterfall 
move 3: Dragon Claw
move 4: Recover
item: Splash Plate
nature: Jolly
evs: 100 HP / 100 Atk / 100 Def / 100 SpD / 100 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>It may seem odd to use a Swords Dance Water Arceus over something like Kabutops, who has higher Speed and Attack due to Swift Swim and Arceus's EV limit, respectively. However, Arceus is bulkier than other rain sweepers, and has access to Recover, which sets it apart and makes it a force to be reckoned with.</p>
 
<p>Swords Dance allows Arceus to raise its Attack to sky-high levels and deal insane damage; after Stealth Rock, Waterfall 2HKOes even Giratina-O! Waterfall is the STAB of choice for this set as it gains "double STAB" in the rain, letting Arceus muscle through even Pokemon who resist Water with its handy 20% flinch rate. Dragon Claw is the ideal move to complement Waterfall in terms of coverage, as it hits Dragon-types that resist Waterfall for super effective damage. Dragon and Water also combine to provide phenomenal type coverage, hitting everything in Ubers for at least neutral damage. A word of caution, a 2x resisted Waterfall in the rain has more power than a neutral Dragon Claw. Therefore, Dragon Claw should only be used against opposing Dragon-types, or when facing a Pokemon with a 4x resistance to Water, such as Ludicolo or Palkia. Against Giratina-O Waterfall is the better course of action, however, as both Dragon Claw and Waterfall fail to OHKO it after a Swords Dance boost, but Waterfall has a nice chance to flinch and still 2HKOes despite the resistance. Garchomp is another Dragon that Arceus is better off using Waterfall against, as a +2 Waterfall in the rain will always OHKO, unlike Dragon Claw. Recover rounds off the set nicely by giving Arceus a way to capitalize on its great bulk. With Recover, Arceus can set up a Swords Dance or two on a wide variety of Pokemon and simply heal off any damage taken before sweeping. A Jolly nature is needed to outspeed the numerous base 90 Speed Pokemon in Ubers, as a max Speed base 90 with a Speed boosting nature outruns a neutral Arceus due to Arceus's EV limit.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>Waterfall is generally the best option for reliability, but if more power is absolutely necessary Aqua Tail can be used. However, the difference in power between Aqua Tail and Waterfall is so insignificant that you are better off using Waterfall for its chance to flinch and perfect accuracy. Another possible option for Water Arceus is Substitute. Substitute allows Water Arceus to scout for switch-ins and block status from Pokemon like Blissey. Even with its EV limit, Arceus can still make 101 HP Substitutes, which Blissey will be unable to break with a single Seismic Toss. If you opt to use Substitute, it's best used over Dragon Claw, although Arceus will miss the coverage. You should avoid using Substitute over Recover, however, as Arceus will lose large chunks of HP and relinquish one of its biggest assets - longevity. In a similar vein, Arceus can use Refresh to rid itself of troublesome status, but once again it will miss the coverage provided by Dragon Claw. ExtremeSpeed is also an option to pick off faster weakened Pokemon, but it is rather weak, even after a Swords Dance boost.</p>
 
<p>Water Arceus has problems with Pokemon that use Thunder, such as Kyogre, Dialga, Latias, and Palkia. Furthermore, a Choice Specs Thunder coming from 150 Special Attack (which all of the aforementioned Pokemon, bar Latias, have) will always OHKO Water Arceus after Stealth Rock. There are several Pokemon who can help Arceus in this regard, the most prominent being Garchomp. Garchomp can easily switch into a Choice-locked Thunder due to its Ground typing and proceed to use Swords Dance as the opponent is forced to switch. If you want to deal with them directly, Latias can switch into all of the aforementioned Pokemon, bar opposing Latias, and hit them with a powerful Dragon Pulse or Thunder. However, it must watch out for Thunder's pesky 30% paralysis rate. It is worth noting that all of the aforementioned checks can be 2HKOed (or OHKOed) by either Dragon Claw or Waterfall, but it's risky to stay in as they may be holding a Choice Scarf. Groudon can also cause problems with its Drought ability, which weakens Water Arceus's STAB. Groudon isn't always 2HKOed by Waterfall, either. Once again, Latias can make a good check if Groudon lacks Thunder Wave, as it can switch into Earthquake and crush it with a Soul Dew-boosted Grass Knot. Kyogre can also take any attack Groudon can throw at it and drown it with a powerful Surf, while bringing back the rain that Arceus loves. That being said, Kyogre should always be paired with this Arceus due to its ability to summon rain and boost Waterfall's power.</p>
 
[SET] 
name: Calm Mind 
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Surf / Judgment
move 3: Substitute / Ice Beam
move 4: Recover
item: Splash Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 100 HP / 100 Def / 100 SpA / 100 SpD / 100 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>At first glance, this set may seem inferior to Calm Mind Kyogre due to Kyogre's superior Special Attack; however, upon closer observation, one will find that Calm Mind Water Arceus has several advantages over the giant whale. First and foremost is Arceus's access to Recover, which is largely superior to Kyogre's Rest. Arceus also has more Speed than Kyogre, even with the EV limit, allowing it to always outspeed Rayquaza and set up more easily on base 90 Speed Pokemon.</p>
 
<p>The first slot of this set goes to Calm Mind, which allows Arceus to raise its Special Attack and Special Defense to obscene levels, and after a few uses, it is nearly unbreakable on the special side. The second slot depends on whether you want to use a mono-attacker set or a regular Calm Mind set. If one wishes to use mono-attacker Water Arceus, the best option is Surf due to its superior PP. If one does choose Surf, then the third slot should be Substitute, as it allows Arceus to scout for switch-ins and gives it an easier setup on foes like Blissey, who cannot break Arceus's Substitute with a single Seismic Toss. If one chooses to use Judgment for added power, Ice Beam becomes the better choice for the third slot to provide Water Arceus with better coverage. Ice Beam allows Arceus to crush the Dragon-type Pokemon it would normally struggle against, such as Palkia and Rayquaza. Arceus needs two Calm Mind boosts to even 2HKO Rayquaza with Surf because of Rayquaza's Air Lock, which negates rain and the boosts it provides. This fact is what makes considering other ways of beating Rayquaza, in this case Ice Beam, important. However, no matter what, Kyogre is always a required teammate due to its Drizzle boosting the power of Arceus's Judgment or Surf to astounding levels. Recover is recommended in the last slot as it complements Arceus's great bulk, and lets it set up on all but the fiercest special attackers by alternating between Calm Mind and Recover. Finally, Timid should always be used with this set as it allows Arceus to outspeed Pokemon like Rayquaza and Dialga, provided they aren't holding a Choice Scarf.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>As stated before, Calm Mind Water Arceus can be used in two different ways: it can be used as a regular Calm Mind set with Judgment and Ice Beam, or it can be used as a mono-attacker with Surf and Substitute over Judgment and Ice Beam, respectively. If you want a way to deal with Kyogre without having to resort to teammates, Thunder is an option over Ice Beam or Recover, but if placed over the former Arceus will struggle to take down Dragon-type Pokemon, and if used over Recover, Arceus will lose one of its biggest advantages over Calm Mind Kyogre. Spacial Rend is another lesser option, but it's worth mentioning for its ability to 2HKO Palkia at +1 compared to Ice Beam's feeble 3HKO. Lastly, if Arceus is taking the mono-attacker route, Refresh is an option over Substitute, allowing Arceus to rid itself of poison from Toxic Spikes, but Substitute is generally the better option as it can be used to scout switch-ins.</p>
 
<p>There is one Pokemon that should always be used alongside Water Arceus: Kyogre. Kyogre provides rain, boosting the power of Arceus's Water-type attacks to sky-high levels and allowing it to smash through even Pokemon who resist Water. However, Kyogre and Water Arceus have the same typing, which means they compound each other's weaknesses to Grass- and Electric-type attacks. Therefore, it is a good idea to pack a teammate who can take attacks of these types, such as Latias. Latias also has the bonus of being able to handle opposing Kyogre, Grass and Electric Arceus, Manaphy, Palkia, and Groudon (if it carries Grass Knot), all of whom pose a major threat to Water Arceus. One can also use a Ground-type, like Garchomp, to switch into Choiced Thunder, which Arceus will often encounter. Since Thunder carries a high chance of paralysis, which cripples Water Arceus, it is worth packing a teammate to help with this. Calm Mind Water Arceus also has trouble with Latias, as it can to Calm Mind alongside Arceus and 2HKO with Thunder at any time. A Pursuit user like Scizor or Metagross can help eliminate Latias, but it is a bad idea to use Tyranitar because it gets rid of rain. If Arceus lacks Substitute or Refresh, Blissey can be a major problem, as she can easily use Toxic against Arceus and proceed to repeatedly heal until Arceus succumbs to poison. A strong physical attacker can help eliminate Blissey; Garchomp in particular gets special mention due to its ability to switch into Thunder. Both mono-attacker and regular Calm Mind Water Arceus enjoy Toxic Spikes support, as with it Arceus can stall out opponents that would otherwise give it trouble; such as Blissey, and Calm Mind Kyogre.</p>
 
[Other Options]
 
<p>The options listed above are superior, but there are still a few other possibilities. Firstly, Shadow Claw can be used over Dragon Claw on the Swords Dance set to hit Psychic- and Ghost-type Pokemon harder, but Waterfall ensures nearly all the same KOs, and Dragon Claw is useful for coverage against Dragon-type Pokemon. Another interesting option is a bulky Water set, making use of Arceus's great natural bulk and Recover. However, it would be generally inferior to Kyogre, who may not have access to Recover, but has superior Special Attack. In general, a tank Arceus set is a bad idea due to Species Clause; one needs to use Arceus wisely. There are a near-infinite number of possibilities, but most of them are best left to other Pokemon or Arceus types. It may be tempting to use an Attack- or Special Attack-boosting nature for more power, but it is never a good idea for Water Arceus, as it needs to outspeed base 95 Speed Pokemon and below to reach its full potential.</p>
 
[Checks and Counters]
 
<p>Water Arceus may be mighty, but both sets are perfectly counterable. Without any Special Defense boosts, Arceus is OHKOed by a Choice Specs-boosted Thunder from a Pokemon with base 150 Special Attack after it takes Stealth Rock damage. Therefore, Choice Specs Kyogre, Dialga, and Mewtwo can easily switch in on Swords Dance or Calm Mind and strike Arceus down with Thunder, but they must be careful of a Ground-type switch-in. Also, Kyogre and Dialga must be aware of Waterfall's 20% chance to flinch, as they will both be 2HKOed by it after a Swords Dance boost and Stealth Rock damage. Groudon can also be a problem for Water Arceus, as it isn't always 2HKOed by Waterfall after Stealth Rock due to its ability, Drought, terminating the rain and summoning sun in its place. The Calm Mind set may be able to 2HKO Groudon, but it still hates the rain being taken away. Groudon can also cripple Arceus with Thunder Wave, or use Roar to nullify its boosts and force it to take damage from entry hazards. Grass and Electric Arceus resist Water Arceus's STAB, and can crush it with their own super effective STABs. If Arceus uses Substitute over a secondary attacking option, it will be completely walled by Pokemon with Water Absorb, like Quagsire. In addition to Pokemon with Water Absorb, Palkia will also be able to crush mono-attacking Arceus thanks to its 4x resistance to Water-type attacks and its access to Thunder. Shaymin-S can also be a problem because an Air Slash followed by Seed Flare will always kill a Water Arceus without any Special Defense boosts, and even if Arceus has a few Special Defense boosts under its belt, Seed Flare has a 64% chance to make it plummet back down.</p>
 
<p>For the Calm Mind set in particular, Latias can switch into anything Water Arceus has, Calm Mind alongside it, and strike it with Thunder for a 2HKO, while Arceus's Ice Beam fails to 3HKO a large percentage of the time, assuming they both have an equal number of Calm Minds. Calm Mind Kyogre easily counters Calm Mind Water Arceus, as it can 2HKO Arceus with Surf if they have an equal number of Calm Minds, while Arceus can only muster a 4HKO. If Arceus lacks Substitute or Refresh, Blissey can easily Toxic stall it due to its massive Special Defense and HP. Finally, Toxic Spikes are deadly to this Arceus's efficacy, particularly that of the Calm Mind set.</p>