[Overview]

<p>Prostrate yourself before this incarnation of The Creator, for he is the embodiment of the fighter's spirit, the ultimate victor. Fighting Arceus stands without peer, as it is immutable fact that even the brawniest of combatants cannot hope to match the might that emanates from Fighting Arceus. You may try to hide yourself behind Blissey, normally the bane of special attackers, but be prepared to abandon all hope after even she is dispatched without pity or mercy. Truly, this Arceus forme is a fearsome sight to behold; ask not for whom the final bell tolls, it tolls for thee.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Ice Beam / Dark Pulse
move 4: Recover 
item: Fist Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 100 HP / 100 Def / 100 SpA / 100 SpD / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Fighting Arceus is one of the only Arceus formes capable of using a specially-oriented set without being completely walled by the fat blob known as Blissey. After just 2 Calm Mind boosts, even the mighty Blissey is 2HKOed by Judgment. Fighting Arceus can easily fit in on any team searching for a bulky sweeper. Unlike most Arceus formes, Fighting Arceus easily demolishes Darkrai after the Sleep Clause has been activated, and also checks Tyranitar, Heatran, and Dialga. These qualities made Fighting Arceus a natural fit into stall teams because it can take out almost any stallbreaker.</p>

<p>Even with the abundance of Psychic-types in the metagame, Fighting-type Judgment is still an effective attack. After a few Calm Mind boosts, it will demolish almost anything that doesn't resist the attack or have huge special bulk. Sadly, the EV restrictions mean Arceus will never outspeed Latias or Latios. Fighting Arceus should never stay in on Latias unless it manages to garner enough boosts, because Latias can use Calm Mind alongside Arceus and eventually defeat it. Fighting Arceus has the added bonus of having a type advantage over several common Arceus formes, such as Normal and Steel Arceus. The coverage move is totally up to preference. Ice Beam nails most Dragon-types such as Rayquaza, Garchomp, and Salamence for an OHKO, while Dark Pulse hurts Psychic-types such as Mewtwo or Deoxys-D. Keep in mind that both Ice Beam and Dark Pulse will not do too much damage to several Uber walls such as Lugia, Giratina, and Latias, even when they are hit for super effective damage. Recover is standard on any Arceus set because it utilizes Arceus's amazing bulk and sweeping ability. It also keeps Fighting Arceus at high health and makes it one of the best counters to Darkrai and Tyranitar.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Similar to many Calm Mind Arceus variants, Fighting Arceus is incredibly vulnerable to Ho-Oh. Ho-Oh has STAB Brave Bird, immense special bulk, and access to reliable recovery which makes it a surefire check to Fighting Arceus. To deal with the glorified turkey, Stealth Rock should always be used together with a spinblocker, preferably Giratina-O, severely limiting Ho-Oh's ability to switch in. Kyogre makes a good partner, as it is able to drown Ho-Oh with its powerful Surf or Water Spout, while Ho-Oh's Brave Bird will likely 2HKO any Kyogre set at worst. Latias is another large annoyance to this set as the little Dragon-type unfortunately outspeeds Fighting Arceus. Blissey, Scizor, or Tyranitar can deal with Latias rather easily. Mewtwo generally lacks any Psychic-type move so Fighting Arceus has little to fear from offensive Mewtwo. However, specially defensive Mewtwo can easily out-stall Fighting Arceus with Light Screen, Taunt, Will-O-Wisp, and Recover. Giratina makes a fantastic partner for the sole reason of walling Ho-Oh and Choice Scarf Kyogre, who OHKOes Fighting Arceus with Water Spout.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Refresh frees Arceus from status such as poison and paralysis that could hinder a sweep. A mono-attacking Calm Mind set is usable, but that leaves Arceus totally helpless against any Ghost-type, so it's not recommended since Giratina-O is rather common. A Swords Dance set can be used, but it is generally a horrible option because Brick Break is the best physical STAB Arceus can get. Swords Dance sets are better left to Normal, Ground, or Ghost Arceus. Stone Edge allows Fighting Arceus to bring down its biggest counter: Ho-Oh. However, it is generally an inferior option because it hits nothing else and Lugia laughs at it. Cosmic Power or a combination of Reflect and Light Screen can be used to boost Arceus's defenses, but its lack of notable resistances means it is outclassed in this role. Perish Song can be used to defeat end-game sweepers, but Fighting Arceus is better suited to demolishing the opponent than attempting to stall. Lastly, Toxic can be used to take out Ho-Oh, Lugia, and Kyogre lacking Rest, since Fighting Arceus can usually scare off Steel-types with Judgment and Poison-types do not exist in Ubers, meaning it is easily abusable. Keep in mind that without Ice Beam, Giratina completely walls Fighting Arceus, and Rayquaza gets the chance to set up on it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ho-Oh is the best counter to Fighting Arceus with its great bulk and access to recovery, as well as STAB Brave Bird to destroy Fighting Arceus. Lugia and Giratina are bulky enough to stomach any attack and status Fighting Arceus or phaze it out, with the former having the added advantage of outrunning Fighting Arceus when running a Timid nature. Latias has great special bulk thanks to Soul Dew, outspeeds it, and can easily defeat Fighting Arceus in a Calm Mind war thanks to Latias's superior special stats and Speed. Specially defensive Mewtwo can wall Fighting Arceus easily thanks to Mewtwo's decent bulk and access to Light Screen, Will-O-Wisp, and Taunt. Psychic Arceus, while being one of the worst Arceus types, can easily defeat Fighting Arceus with Zen Headbutt, but a boosted Dark Pulse will likely put a large dent into it. Gyarados has little to fear from Fighting Arceus's weak Judgments while it can easily status, Taunt, phaze with Roar, or 2HKO Fighting Arceus with Waterfall. In rain, a +1 Waterfall will likely OHKO Fighting Arceus after a little prior damage. Fighting Arceus can abuse one layer of Toxic Spikes to make itself immune to Toxic and defeat Blissey easily. Nevertheless, two layers of Toxic Spikes will severely hamper Fighting Arceus's longevity.</p>