[Overview]

<p>The Creator rises out of the depths of the earth and takes on the very qualities of the rocks themselves, from the hardest obsidian to the smoothest alabaster. Sharp stones rain upon the hides of all those who dare oppose the mineral deity, as summoning the might of Gaia is but a trifle for this incarnation of Arceus. Those weak of faith will have you believe that Rock Arceus is prone to too many elements and thus an inferior forme, but rest assured that once He harnesses a few boosts, the Creator shall exact His revenge upon all. Underestimate Him at your own peril.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Judgment
move 3: Grass Knot / Substitute
move 4: Recover
item: Stone Plate
nature: Timid
evs: 100 HP / 100 Def / 100 SpA / 100 SpD / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Like all Arceus formes, Rock Arceus can run a very threatening Calm Mind set. Rock Arceus is also one of the few Arceus formes that can beat Ho-Oh with a Calm Mind set, thanks to its Rock-type Judgment. However, due to its weaknesses to common types such as Water, Ground, and Fighting, Rock Arceus can't tank hits very well. Despite this, with Calm Mind, Rock Arceus is still an offensive threat. Arceus's +1 Grass Knot always OHKOes offensive Groudon, and OHKOes support Groudon, who would otherwise stop Rock Arceus cold, after a little prior damage.</p>

<p>Calm Mind is the crux of the set, allowing Arceus to boost its Special Attack and Special Defense. Judgment is obviously the primary attacking move, thanks to STAB, and though it may seem weak at first, Arceus can easily obtain multiple Calm Mind boosts with its great bulk and Recover. Rock Arceus has two main options for the last spot: Grass Knot and Substitute. Grass Knot is used to hit Groudon and Kyogre for super effective damage, while Substitute is used to block status, allowing Rock Arceus to beat Blissey. Ice Beam can be used over Grass Knot to score an OHKO on Garchomp, while still hitting Groudon hard, but Rock Arceus will have problems with bulky Kyogre. Fire Blast can also work over Grass Knot to hit Steel-types for super effective damage while still doing respectable damage to Groudon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Latios and Latias can outpace Rock Arceus and will win in a Calm Mind war. Scizor can be used to remedy that, with its decent Special Defense and access to U-turn and Pursuit. Tyranitar is another answer to Latios and Latias, also providing sandstorm support to boost Rock Arceus's Special Defense. Garchomp can outspeed Arceus and can hit with a super effective STAB Earthquake, so recommended partners would include Skarmory, which can wall Garchomp while also setting up entry hazards to aid Arceus. Choice Scarf Kyogre can switch in and use Water Spout or Surf to devastating effect, and bulky Kyogre can pose a threat even though it takes a hefty 61.3% - 72.3% from a boosted Grass Knot. Latios and Latias can take Water-type attacks from Kyogre aimed at Arceus, so they can make good teammates. Specially defensive Skarmory can phaze Arceus away, but it will take a big hit from Judgement. Wobbufett lets Arceus set up more easily while trapping Scarfed Pokemon who attempt to KO Rock Arceus as well. Dual screens can also aid in setting up, allowing Rock Arceus to obtain multiple Calm Mind boosts with ease. Spikes and Stealth Rock can help secure some KOs, so a user of entry hazards is recommended. Forretress and Skarmory do the job, and Forretress can use Rapid Spin to remove the opponent's entry hazards. Both of these Pokemon make excellent choices, since Rock Arceus can switch into the Fire-type attacks aimed at them. Scizor has Bullet Punch, making it a threat to Arceus even though Arceus can hit it for plenty of damage. Partners such as Dialga and Heatran can easily switch into Bullet Punch and immediately threaten Scizor. Fighting Arceus and Lucario both resist Rock Arceus's Judgment and can hit it with their respective STAB attacks. Giratina-O can switch into these Fighting-type moves without worry thanks to its immunity. While Shaymin-S can't switch in, its STAB Seed Flares do an enormous amount of damage even after a Calm Mind boost. In addition, Blissey can counter this set should Rock Arceus not use Substitute.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Stone Edge
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: ExtremeSpeed / Recover
item: Stone Plate
nature: Jolly
evs: 100 HP / 100 Atk / 100 Def / 100 SpD / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Rock Arceus has the potential to be a menacing Swords Dance sweeper. Stone Edge and Earthquake offer excellent coverage together, hitting nearly every Pokemon in the metagame for at least neutral damage. A Jolly nature is needed to outpace positive base 90 Speed Pokemon and lower.</p>

<p>Swords Dance boosts Arceus's attack to huge levels, while Stone Edge is the main attack as it recieves STAB. Stone Edge's damage output may seem lackluster at first, but Arceus's bulk and access to Recover allows it to obtain multiple Attack boosts with Swords Dance. Earthquake rounds off its near-perfect coverage by hitting most Pokemon who resist Stone Edge. ExtremeSpeed is a good option as it allows Arceus to pick off faster Pokemon, while Recover can be used in the same spot in order to increase longevity. The last option to consider is Overheat, which can be used to fry Skarmory and Forretress, who can otherwise take several hits and lay down hazards.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Garchomp poses a threat as it outspeeds Arceus and deals serious damage with STAB Earthquake. Skarmory makes a great teammate, as it can switch into any of Garchomps attacks, and provide much-appreciated entry hazard support. Choice Scarf Kyogre can outspeed and OHKO Arceus with Water Spout or Hydro Pump, although it can't switch in, as it is 2HKOed by a combination of Stone Edge and ExtremeSpeed. Physically defensive Skarmory can phaze Arceus after taking a considerable portion of damage from Stone Edge. Wobbuffet aids setting up and can trap Scarfed Pokemon that attempt to revenge kill Rock Arceus. Dual screen support can make set-up even easier, allowing Rock Arceus to stomach powerful hits and set up Swords Dance with ease. Entry hazards can help secure some extra KOs that are normally out of reach. Skarmory or Forretress can accomplish this nicely, the former walling Garchomp, while the latter provides Rapid Spin support. Rock Arceus can take Fire-type attacks aimed at either of the aforementioned Pokemon, preventing them from being roasted. Scizor can easily revenge kill Arceus with STAB Technician-boosted Bullet Punch, although it can't switch in as it is KO'ed by a boosted Stone Edge after Stealth Rock damage. Partners such as Dialga and Heatran can easily switch into Bullet Punch and immediately threaten it.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed
move 1: Stone Edge
move 2: Fire Blast / Earthquake
move 3: Grass Knot
move 4: Recover
item: Stone Plate
nature: Naive / Hasty
evs: 100 HP / 100 Atk / 60 Def / 100 SpA / 50 SpD / 100 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes a more unusual approach to using Rock Arceus. Many common switch-ins to will struggle to deal with this set. For Instance, Kyogre and Groudon, Rock Arceus's two most common switch-ins, are hit very hard by Grass Knot. A Speed-boosting nature is needed to outpace positive base 90 Speed Pokemon and anything slower.</p>

<p>Stone Edge is the primary move due to STAB, and it hits many common Pokemon in the Uber environment for super effective damage. Fire Blast is used in order to hit Steel-types who resist the rest of Arceus's moves. Earthquake is also an option to hit harder in the rain, but it causes Arceus to struggle with Bronzong, Skarmory, and Forretress. Recover is used in the last spot into increase longevity. Dragon Claw can also be used in place of Stone Edge for a 100% accurate move to use against Dragon-type Pokemon, while also hitting Palkia and Dialga for more damage than Stone Edge. However, without Stone Edge, Pokemon such as Shaymin-S, Lugia, and especially Ho-Oh have a much easier time with Arceus.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Garchomp is problematic because it can outspeed Rock Arceus and hit it with STAB Earthquake. Skarmory is a great fix to the problem thanks to its amazing Defense stat and typing, which lets it resist Garchomp's dual STAB. Choice Scarf Kyogre can revenge kill Rock Arceus with Water Spout or Surf for an OHKO. Latios and Latias can take any attack aimed at Rock Arceus from a Kyogre, barring Ice Beam. Wobbufett can trap and eliminate Pokemon that pose a threat to Rock Arceus. Spikes and Stealth Rock support can weaken Pokemon upon switching in and make it easier for Rock Arceus to take them out. Forretress and Skarmory fit the bill nicely, with Forretress providing Rapid Spin support and Skarmory being able to wall Garchomp. Fighting Arceus resists Rock Arceus's Stone Edge and can KO it with STAB Fighting-type Judgement. Giratina-O makes a good check to Fighting Arceus thanks to its Ghost typing. While Shaymin-S can't switch on Rock Arceus fearing a Stone Edge, its STAB Seed Flare does an a huge amount of damage.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Refresh allows Arceus to rid itself of status effects such as poison and paralysis, which could hinder a sweep. Arceus can also spread poison around with Toxic, but it's generally inferior to just attacking. Roar can allow Arceus to be an efficient phazer while wearing down its counters, and also gives Arceus a chance to win in a Calm Mind war when facing Latias or Latios. If Rock Arceus uses Roar, entry hazard support is necessary to make the most of its phazing ability. Reflect and Light Screen can be used to support teammates, but there are better dual screen users, especially given that Rock Arceus cannot carry Light Clay. Arceus can also use Perish Song to put a timer on Calm Mind users that think they can set up, and can also force switches to rack up entry hazard damage.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Rock Arceus has quite a few counters that can stop it cold. Garchomp outspeeds Arceus and can hit it with a super effective STAB Earthquake. Choice Scarf Kyogre can switch in and use Water Spout or Surf to devastating effect. Physically defensive Skarmory can phaze Arceus away after taking a considerable portion of damage from Stone Edge. Scizor can Bullet Punch Arceus for a large amount of damage. Fighting Arceus resists Rock Arceus's STAB moves and hits it with its Fighting-type Judgement. While Shaymin-S can't switch in, its STAB Seed Flare does an enormous amount of damage.</p>