[Overview]

<p>Even in the Uber tier, there is no Pokémon who can do Blissey's job better. Although there are several Pokémon who can break through Blissey's Special Defenses in Ubers, don't let that discourage you from using Blissey, as it is still the best general special wall in the Ubers metagame. Almost any team will appreciate Blissey's ability to sponge special assaults, especially stall teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Wish Support
move 1: Wish
move 2: Protect
move 3: Seismic Toss / Ice Beam
move 4: Toxic
item: Leftovers / Shed Shell
ability: Natural Cure
nature: Calm
evs: 4 HP / 252 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Even with incredible walls such as Giratina and Lugia in the Uber tier, Blissey is still the number one special wall to use. Blissey is the only Pokémon in Ubers that can wall such a wide variety of special threats, such as Latias, Latios (as long as it lacks Refresh or Safeguard), Palkia, Dialga (provided they aren't mixed), and Calm Mind Lugia. As far as attacking options go, Seismic Toss is generally the most reliable as it will do a decent amount of damage to Pokémon like Kyogre and Latias who would otherwise laugh at Ice Beam. Seismic Toss also allows Blissey to have a better chance of beating Mewtwo that have Calm Mind and Taunt, which Ice Beam can not accomplish. Ice Beam is still a good option though, as three common Blissey switch-ins (Groudon, Garchomp, and Rayquaza) are hit super effectively by it. With 84 SpA EVs, Garchomp takes a massive 76.19% - 90.76% from Ice Beam when it switches in, while a 0 HP / 4 SpD Rayquaza will be OHKOed after switching into Stealth Rock. In emergencies, you can leave Blissey in on Rayquaza, because the opponent may attempt to set up a Dragon Dance or Swords Dance. When using Seismic Toss, use the EV spread 4 HP / 252 Def / 252 SpD, as there is no reason to invest in Special Attack when using it. Toxic complements this set well, as the combination of Protect and Wish can very easily stall Pokémon to death. Toxic is a good choice to use if you predict the opponent is going to switch, as several threats to Blissey (Kyogre, Darkrai, and Giratina-O) become much easier to handle when badly poisoned. Thunder Wave can be used over Toxic, but make sure you use it only with Seismic Toss. This is because without Seismic Toss or Toxic, Latias can set up Calm Minds with no problem and eventually KO Blissey. Although not recommended due to moveslot competition, Heal Bell can be used over Protect if your team needs both a status reliever and a user of Wish.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Blissey is one of the few viable Wish passers in the Uber tier, thus many good teammates for Blissey are simply Pokémon who greatly appreciate Wish. A perfect example of this is Choice Specs Kyogre. While Choice Specs Kyogre is an insanely powerful wallbreaker, Water Spout's power will unfortunately decrease as Kyogre's HP diminishes. With Blissey's Wish, Kyogre can have a chance to have an extremely powerful Water Spout again. In a similar manner, Choice Scarf Kyogre will also love Wish. Wobbuffet is another Pokémon who greatly benefits from Wish support. It, while being bulky, will usually only be able to revenge kill one Pokémon per match. With Blissey's Wish, Wobbuffet will be able to stay in battle for a much longer period of time, thus making it much more difficult for the opponent to handle. Another Pokémon who benefits from Blissey's Wish is Forretress. This will allow Forretress to take more powerful hits from the likes of Garchomp, allowing it to have more time to set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes. Finally, a defensive support Groudon will have a much easier time dealing with Lucario and Rayquaza thanks to Blissey's Wish support; as well as support Dialga having an easier time dealing with Palkia and Kyogre.</p>

<p>While Blissey may still be the queen of special walling in Ubers, some of the special attackers of Ubers are so powerful that they can break through her. A good example of this is Kyogre, which has several sets that can make Blissey run for cover. Choice Specs Kyogre is so absurdly powerful that it can 2HKO Blissey with Water Spout, as long as it has at least 80% of its health. Kyogre can also use 252 HP EVs to make 101 HP Substitutes, which means that it can set up Calm Mind while Blissey is forced to use Seismic Toss twice to break the Substitutes. After three Calm Minds, a Modest Kyogre will always 2HKO Blissey with Surf, even when accounting for Leftovers recovery. Finally, Kyogre may carry the combination of Sleep Talk and Rest to either set up Calm Mind on Blissey or to outstall her. To solve the problems Blissey has with Kyogre, Latias should always be considered. Latias can switch into Choice Specs Kyogre's Water Spout, and use Thunder to weaken its power by reducing Kyogre's HP. Latias can use Calm Mind as the other Kyogre variants attempt to set up, and will usually beat it. The combination of Latias and Blissey will wall every single Kyogre set, making Latias an excellent teammate for Wish Blissey. Palkia is another good option if you only need a Pokémon to beat Choice Specs Kyogre. Something to note is that once Kyogre has switched into Stealth Rock twice, it will no longer be able to 2HKO Blissey with a Choice Specs Water Spout, thus Blissey will be able to wall it with ease as long as there are no critical hits. Manaphy can also cause serious issues for Blissey when it's raining. It will be immune to status and can set up Tail Glow or Rest off the damage it has taken and wake up immediately afterwards, thanks to its ability, Hydration. After two Tail Glows and Life Orb, Manaphy will always 2HKO Blissey with Surf. To beat Manaphy, Latias once again makes an excellent teammate, as it OHKOes it with Thunder after Stealth Rock and will win a Calm Mind war if Manaphy attempts that.</p>

<p>Nasty Plot Darkrai can cause some serious problems for Blissey. After one use of Nasty Plot, Darkrai will 2HKO Blissey with Focus Blast. To make matters even worse, Darkrai can carry Substitute to block Thunder Wave and Toxic. It can also put Blissey to sleep with Dark Void, not only giving it the opportunity to set up, but also dealing damage with its ability, Bad Dreams. Generally, the best way to deal with Darkrai is to predict a Dark Void and send in a sleep absorber (usually carrying Sleep Talk, but this is not required). Then, switch to a Pokémon who can revenge kill Darkrai (such as Life Orb Mewtwo, Choice Scarf Palkia, Choice Specs Shaymin-S, etc.). Something to note is if a Choice Scarf Darkrai switches into Blissey, it is likely that it is carrying Trick, thus it is best to switch to a Choice Scarf user of your own or a Pokémon who does not mind being Tricked with a Choice Scarf.</p>

<p>Mewtwo can also pose a problem for Blissey, due to Taunt and Substitute. Mewtwo can make 101 HP Substitutes and use Calm Mind to beat Blissey in a similar way Kyogre can. It also has the option of using Taunt and Recover to PP stall Blissey, thanks to Pressure. In a similar manner, Mew can Taunt Blissey and use the time to set up and Baton Pass to a powerful Pokémon such as Groudon. To stop Substitute Mewtwo and Baton Pass Mew, Scizor makes an excellent choice. Mewtwo can be hit hard by Pursuit even if it stays in, while Mew will get its Reflect and Light Screen broken by Brick Break and be OHKOed by U-turn. Choice Specs Kyogre also works well, as it can switch into a defensive Mewtwo with ease and threaten to OHKO with Water Spout, while Mew will take massive damage.</p>

<p>Another problem for Blissey is Giratina as it can easily outstall Blissey due to its Pressure ability and Ghost-typing. Giratina can also use a combination of Sleep Talk, Rest, and Calm Mind to set up on Blissey. Although it's very rare, Latias and Latios can beat Blissey in a similar manner with Calm Mind, Recover, and either Refresh or Safeguard. Generally, the best answer to Giratina is Bulk Up Dialga. Dialga can easily set up Bulk Up as Giratina uses Will-O-Wisp and then use Rest to restore its health. After three uses of Bulk Up, Dialga will always OHKO Giratina with Outrage. For Calm Mind Giratina, Tyranitar can switch in and cause a serious amount of damage with a Choice Banded Crunch. For Latias and Latios, Tyranitar, Scizor, and Metagross can penetrate them with Pursuit or their powerful STAB attacks.</p>

<p>If Giratina-O switches in on any move but Thunder Wave or Toxic, it can pose a serious threat to not only Blissey, but also to the rest of the team. Blissey will have a difficult time breaking Giratina-O's Substitutes with Ice Beam. If it uses Calm Mind, Blissey will no longer be able to break Giratina-O's Substitute, meaning that Giratina-O can continue to set up Calm Mind. After four uses of Calm Mind, Giratina-O is able to 2HKO Blissey with Dragon Pulse, and then threaten to sweep the rest of your team. To solve this issue, it is advisable to use a Careful Forretress with Light Screen and Payback. Forretress can switch into Giratina-O, use Light Screen to minimize the damage it takes, and then 4HKO Giratina-O with Payback. It is also a huge help to Blissey, due to Toxic Spikes. When Forretress sets up two layers of Toxic Spikes, several big threats to Blissey, such as Darkrai, Choice Specs Kyogre, and Substitute Mewtwo, will become much easier to handle due to the constant damage from poison. If Forretress does not fit on your team, it is best to use Tyranitar, whose combination of Crunch and Sand Stream will make Giratina-O's life short.</p>

<p>If Shaymin-S is using a Modest nature and Choice Specs, it can 2HKO Blissey with Seed Flare if it gets a Special Defense drop. Choice Scarf Dialga, Choice Scarf Heatran, Choice Scarf Jirachi, and Choice Scarf Metagross are capable of switching into a Choice Specs Seed Flare, and can OHKO Shaymin-S with Draco Meteor (Dialga), Fire Blast (Dialga and Heatran), or Ice Punch (Jirachi and Metagross). Be warned, Choice Scarf Jirachi and Choice Scarf Metagross will still take a significant amount of damage from repeated switch-ins to Seed Flare, despite their resistance. Skarmory can take a Seed Flare due to its 4x resistance, and Whirlwind Shaymin-S away. Choice Band Scizor can also switch into Seed Flare, and threaten to 2HKO it with Bullet Punch. Latias and Lugia can survive two Seed Flares (although it will do a severe amount of damage to both if it gets a Special Defense drop), and threaten to OHKO Shaymin-S with Dragon Pulse and Ice Beam respectively after taking Stealth Rock damage.</p>

<p>While Leftovers is generally the preferred option, Shed Shell is a very viable alternative in Ubers because of Wobbuffet. Wobbuffet can switch into Blissey, trap it, and use a combination of Tickle and Encore several times. After Wobbuffet is done Tickling Blissey, the opponent can switch to Scizor or Tyranitar to eliminate Blissey with Pursuit. Due to Wobbuffet's ability, Shadow Tag, this is completely unavoidable without the use of Shed Shell. Blissey can also become set up bait for Wobbuffet, which is very undesirable with the powerful sweepers roaming around in the Uber tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Softboiled
move 1: Softboiled
move 2: Seismic Toss / Ice Beam
move 3: Toxic / Thunder Wave
move 4: Ice Beam / Aromatherapy
item: Leftovers / Shed Shell
ability: Natural Cure
nature: Calm
evs: 252 Def / 84 SpA / 172 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is very similar to Wish Blissey, but it forgoes the supportive nature of Wish and Protect in exchange for Softboiled, which frees up an extra moveslot for Blissey. The best two moves for this moveslot are Ice Beam or Aromatherapy. With the EV spread above, Blissey's Ice Beam is able to OHKO Rayquaza with 4 Special Defense EVs 100% of the time after it takes Stealth Rock damage, thus making Blissey an effective Rayquaza lure.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Aromatherapy can be especially useful in Ubers for a number of reasons. Thunder is one of the most common moves used in the Uber tier, and with it comes a 30% chance of paralysis which can ruin the many sweepers of the tier. Darkrai is also a huge threat in Ubers, and can often cripple a Pokémon for the entire match with Dark Void due to the fast paced nature of Ubers. With that being said, many of Aromatherapy Blissey's best teammates are powerful or game changing Pokémon who are very vulnerable to status effects. A good example of this is Wobbuffet. When Wobbuffet is using Encore to either destroy a wall with the Tickle + Pursuit user combination, or just trying to set up a sweeper, Wobbuffet will often get hit by Toxic or Will-O-Wisp, cutting down its survivability. Blissey's Aromatherapy can remove Wobbuffet's status affliction, allowing Wobbuffet to do its job of removing Choice Scarf Pokémon more easily. Another good teammate is a Quiet mixed Dialga. While mixed Dialga will easily destroy Giratina with Draco Meteor, Giratina can use Will-O-Wisp to destroy Dialga's chances of breaking through Latias and Blissey. With your own Blissey's Aromatherapy, Dialga can once again be a powerful wallbreaker. Finally, Lugia works very well with this particular Blissey. This is because Lugia, when trying to beat Groudon, can often be hit by Thunder Wave and Toxic, meaning it will be unable to harm the team with the combination of Whirlwind and entry hazards for much longer. Thanks to Blissey's Aromatherapy, Lugia can once again wear down teams with Whirlwind. Generally, Aromatherapy Blissey does very well with sweepers that can be crippled by Paralysis and Burn.</p>

<p>When using Blissey in Ubers, Forretress should always be considered for the purpose of laying down Toxic Spikes and Spikes. This is because Blissey will force a lot of switches on the opponent's side due to many Uber Pokémon focusing on special attacks. Toxic Spikes in particular are a huge help to Blissey, as they will wear down Pokémon such as Choice Specs Kyogre, Mewtwo, Garchomp, and Groudon; all of which are problems for Blissey. Stealth Rock can also be useful for the same reasons. Although Blissey can use Stealth Rock herself, it is better to have other Pokémon do this for her. Dialga and Groudon are good examples of this. Deoxys-S and Deoxys-D can also use Spikes that Blissey can benefit from. This can be useful because once Spikes and Stealth Rock are laid, Choice Specs Kyogre can no longer break through Blissey.</p>

<p>Many teams rely on revenge killing their opponents with powerful special attacks in order to deal with certain threats. For example, many teams count on Choice Scarf Palkia to OHKO Darkrai with Draco Meteor. Blissey can work very well with Darkrai in this case. She can easily switch into the incoming Draco Meteor and use the time to either status the next switch-in or switch to another Pokémon who takes advantage of an incoming physical attacker . In a similar manner, Blissey can also partner well with Garchomp, Rayquaza, and Groudon. Many teams use Lugia to stop all three, and Blissey has no problems with switching into Lugia's Ice Beam. Blissey can then threaten to cripple it or the next switch-in with Toxic.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Thunder
move 4: Softboiled
item: Leftovers / Shed Shell
nature: Calm
evs: 252 Def / 84 SpA / 172 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a few adjustments, Calm Mind Blissey can work very well in Ubers. Once again, Blissey should use a Calm Nature with an EV spread of 252 Def / 84 SpA / 172 SpD to OHKO Rayquaza with Ice Beam after it switches into Stealth Rock. Thunder should also be used in place of Thunderbolt, mainly due to its use with the rain support Kyogre gives Blissey, making Thunder 100% accurate, and a powerful attack that has a 30% chance to induce paralysis. While Serene Grace is most certainly a worthy option (especially with a 60% chance of paralysis with Thunder), Natural Cure is usually preferred because without it, Blissey will be crippled by Toxic.</p>

<p>One of the biggest selling points of Calm Mind Blissey in Ubers is the ability to beat certain threats that Wish Blissey and Aromatherapy Blissey would normally lose to. For example, Calm Mind Blissey can boost against Giratina-O and eventually destroy it with Ice Beam. Another good example is Choice Specs Kyogre. If Kyogre switches on Blissey as it uses Calm Mind, Kyogre will be 2HKOed by Thunder after Stealth Rock. Thus, Kyogre will no longer pose a threat to Blissey with its weakened Water Spout. It will also beat Calm Mind and Substitute Kyogre by Calm Minding along with it, while Blissey being able to easily recover its health and beat Kyogre with Thunder. Giratina that lack Calm Mind are also beaten by Calm Mind Blissey, because Giratina's Dragon Claw will only do 31% max to Blissey (even Outrage only does 46% maximum). However, Blissey requires three Calm Minds to 2HKO a 248 HP / 8 SpD Giratina. If Manaphy switches in on Blissey it will also lose. This is because Blissey can use Calm Mind as Manaphy sets up Tail Glow. Even a +6 Manaphy will be unable to 2HKO Blissey with Surf in the rain after Blissey has used Calm Mind three times. Meanwhile, a +3 Blissey will be able to OHKO Manaphy with Thunder. Substitute Mewtwo with Calm Mind and Latias or Latios with Calm Mind and Refresh or Safeguard will lose to Blissey in a way like Calm Mind Kyogre.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Calm Mind Blissey will struggle with mono-attacking Kyogre and Giratina, as they will be able to outstall Blissey unless it gets a critical hit. Additionally, any Pokémon who has Roar or Whirlwind along with Calm Mind can phaze Blissey away, and threaten to sweep. The best example of this is Calm Mind Lugia. To foil Kyogre's plans, once again Latias is easily the best answer, as Kyogre will do little damage to Latias with Surf, while Latias has no problems setting up Calm Mind on it. For Calm Mind Giratina, Bulk Up Dialga can switch in. While a +4 Dragon Pulse will do massive damage to Dialga, a +3 Outrage will always OHKO Giratina. Choice Band Dialga can also beat it with Outrage. Choice Band Tyranitar will also receive minimal damage thanks to the Special Defense boost Sand Stream grants it, and can inflict large amounts of damage to Giratina with a Choice Banded Crunch. Tyranitar can also Taunt both Lugia and Giratina and threaten to set up a sweep with Dragon Dance. Support Dialga can also take care of Calm Mind Lugia by crippling it with Toxic. Finally, Mewtwo that have Taunt and Calm Mind can easily set up on Blissey. Metagross and Scizor can usually deal with this variant of Mewtwo, as they often lack Fire attacks.</p>

<p>Psych Up can go over Calm Mind and has several pros and cons. With Psych Up, Blissey can copy stat boosts from Kyogre or Latias that have gotten a large amount of Calm Minds and stop their sweep. However, this comes at the cost of losing to Choice Specs Kyogre, Giratina, and Tail Glow Manaphy in the rain. To beat Kyogre and Manaphy, Latias is once again the best choice, while Bulk Up Dialga or Choice Specs Dialga will annihilate Giratina. As always, Shed Shell is a very viable option as it allows Blissey to escape death by Wobbuffet.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Blissey has a bundle of other support moves for use in Ubers. She is one of the few usable Pokémon in Ubers who has access to Stealth Rock. While Blissey is often better off using other support moves besides Stealth Rock, it is a viable move if no other Pokémon on your team can set it up. Light Screen may seem like an odd choice on Blissey, but it can be helpful for not only support the rest of your team, but will also make sure that Choice Specs Kyogre will no longer be able to 2HKO Blissey while Light Screen lasts. Blissey can use Sing to put would be counters to sleep, but note that Sing only has a 55% chance of hitting the opponent. Snatch can be used to steal Reflects, Light Screens, stat ups, and other support moves, but many users of such moves such as Mewtwo can easily use Taunt to shut down that strategy, in addition to Blissey often being better off using Calm Mind herself rather then stealing Calm Minds. Rest is almost always an inferior option to Softboiled or Wish, but it can work well with Natural Cure, allowing Blissey to be relativity unharmed by Toxic Spikes, and will allow Blissey to outstall opposing Blissey. Blissey can use Block to trap Wobbuffet switch-ins, and then use Toxic to slowly stall Wobbuffet to death. Copycat may seem like a strange option on Blissey, but it can be useful in certain situations. For example, it can allow Blissey to use Spikes or Toxic Spikes on Forretress as it uses them. If Forretress attempts to Rapid Spin, Blissey can either roast it with Flamethrower (provided that its sunny), or Copycat Rapid Spin to get rid of the opponents entry hazards. Copycat can also allow Blissey to defeat Calm Mind Giratina-O and Calm Mind Kyogre that lack Rest. Note, however, that Copycat is illegal with Seismic Toss and Wish.</p>

<p>Charm can be used to soften physical attackers attempting to prey on Blissey after a switch-in. Due to Charm, mixed Palkia (barring a Focus Punch) and Dialga will no longer be able to get past Blissey beyond scoring a critical hit, while Groudon and Garchomp will only have a small chance to 2HKO Blissey with a Choice Banded Earthquake and Outrage respectively. Note that both Garchomp and Groudon have access to Swords Dance, thus it is best to still have Pokémon who can defeat both. While an Adamant Life Orb Rayquaza can still 2HKO Blissey with Outrage after being hit by Charm, she can OHKO Rayquaza with Ice Beam after it switches into Stealth Rock and Charm (provided she has 84 SpA EVs), allowing Blissey to defeat a Pokémon by whom she is normally greatly troubled. Charm also has the potential to cause a large amount of switches, thus it is best to pair Charm Blissey with users of entry hazards. Note that both Wish and Seismic Toss are illegal to use with Charm.</p>

<p>Blissey has access to Gravity. Gravity will allow both Groudon and Garchomp to freely use Earthquake and a 100% accurate Stone Edge, as Gravity eliminates the immunity Flying-type Pokémon and Pokémon with the Levitate ability for five turns. Gravity will also eliminate the immunity floating Pokémon have to Spikes and Toxic Spikes, meaning that Gravity Blissey will greatly benefit Forretress and Skarmory's Spikes (and Toxic Spikes in Forretress' case) laying abilities. Finally, Gravity will lower the evasion of all Pokémon by 2 stages, meaning that any move that has at least 60% accuracy will always hit. This is especially great for Darkrai, who must often use the 70% accurate Focus Blast and the 80% accurate Dark Void. Calm Mind Mewtwo with Life Orb will also enjoy the effects of Gravity, as it allows Life Orb Mewtwo to safely use Focus Blast, which will always 2HKO opposing Blissey after one use of Calm Mind. Garchomp not only benefits from an Earthquake that hits all Pokémon, it also enjoys the evasion cut as well. This is because the usually unreliable Dragon Rush becomes viable on Garchomp under Gravity, meaning that it will have access to a STAB 100 Base Power Dragon-type attack that has a 20% chance to flinch. Blissey's Sing will also hit 92% of the time under Gravity. There is one potentially fatal flaw with Gravity, and it is that the opponent can also take advantage of Gravity's effects. This will make Groudon and Garchomp particularly difficult to handle, thus it is best to either destroy them before using Gravity.</p>

<p>Blissey has some alternate attacks at its disposal that can be useful in certain situations. When under the support of Groudon's everlasting sun, Flamethrower becomes a viable option to KO or cripple several common Steel-types that may switch into Blissey. Forretress is always OHKOed by Flamethrower after Stealth Rock, while only extremely specially defensive Scizor will survive Flamethrower after Stealth Rock damage. Blissey's Flamethrower will do a massive 76% - 90% to Lucario in the sun, while Metagross is always 2HKOed after Stealth Rock damage. Grass Knot may normally be an inferior option to Thunder on Calm Mind , but it has two main selling points. Grass Knot is always a 100% accurate attack, regardless of the weather, which is particularly useful considering the fact that many Ubers are heavy enough to be hit by a 120 Base Power Grass Knot. Secondly, Groudon is hit quite hard by it. Finally, Counter can be a good option on Blissey, even in Ubers. Several Pokémon, such as Palkia and Dialga, will use mixed sets just to defeat Blissey. If Blissey predicts a physical attack from either of them, and uses Counter, Palkia and Dialga are sure to be KOed. Also, note that defensive Groudon, Choice Scarf Garchomp, and Scizor that lack Superpower are also unable to OHKO Blissey, meaning that Blissey will be able to gain a surprise kill on them if she is healthy.</p>

<p>In the Uber tier, Blissey should use 4 HP / 252 Def / 252 SpD with a Calm nature on all sets without Ice Beam, as Blissey needs to be extra durable to take the powerful assaults of Ubers. If using Ice Beam, use the EV spread of 252 Def / 84 SpA / 172 SpD, because this will allow Blissey to OHKO a 0 HP / 4 SpD Rayquaza 100% of the time after it switches into Stealth Rock.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>In the Uber tier, Bulk Up Dialga is, without a doubt, the best Blissey counter. It is immune to Toxic and can easily set up on Blissey. Powerful physical attackers such as Garchomp, Groudon, and Rayquaza can make Blissey's life a living hell. However, Ice Beam will do massive damage to Garchomp and Rayquaza and none of them will like being hit by Toxic.</p>

<p>Many Pokémon in the Uber tier can surprise Blissey with mixed attacking sets, such as Mewtwo, Darkrai, Dialga, Palkia and Giratina-O. Dialga in particular can be a problem, as it is immune to Toxic.</p>

<p>If Blissey lacks Calm Mind or Psych Up, Kyogre and Giratina can use a combination of Sleep Talk, Rest, and Calm Mind to easily set up on Blissey. Kyogre, Mewtwo, and Giratina-O can also use Substitute and Calm Mind to beat her. In the rain, Manaphy can easily set up Tail Glow on non-Calm Mind Blissey and 2HKO it with a +2 Surf. Choice Specs Kyogre also has the capability of 2HKOing Blissey with Water Spout.</p>

<p>Wobbuffet can switch into Blissey and use Tickle several times to lower its Defense. After this, Blissey will be KOed by Pursuit from Scizor or Tyranitar. Wobbuffet can also use Encore on Blissey and switch in a sweeper such as Lucario or Giratina-O to take advantage of the free set up time.</p>