[Overview]

<p>Dialga’s unique typing and well-distributed stats make it both an excellent offensive and defensive Pokemon. Offensively, Dialga has a stunning base 120 Attack and base 150 Special Attack that's backed by the ever-dominant Dragon-type STAB. Dialga's vast offensive movepool allows it to pick off a variety of Pokemon. Defensively, Dialga’s typing offers it a whopping total of nine resistances and an immunity, as well as neutrality to Ice- and Dragon-type attacks, something other Dragon-type Pokemon would kill for. With its stellar base defenses combined with the aforementioned resistances, Dialga is a difficult Pokemon to take down unless you target its weaknesses. Dialga is also revered as an excellent utility Pokemon thanks to its equally-vast support movepool. With its plethora of options, Dialga is, in a word, unpredictable.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed
move 1: Draco Meteor
move 2: Outrage / Brick Break
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Thunder / Bulk Up
item: Expert Belt / Life Orb
nature: Mild / Hasty
EVs: 144 Atk / 252 SpA / 112 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>STAB Draco Meteor bolstered by 438 Special Attack, or 399 if Dialga opts to use a Hasty nature, is frightening for any opponent. Only Steel-type Pokemon and Blissey can take Draco Meteor without the risk of being 2HKOed in the process, though some frailer Steel-types such as Lucario take major damage anyway (66.2% - 77.9% if Dialga is Mild). Brick Break, with the given Attack EVs, will 2HKO most Uber Blissey with Stealth Rock in play. Fire Blast is the best attack for taking down the vast majority of Steel-types in the Uber metagame, but it comes with the downside of being weakened by the near-omnipresent rain. This can be resolved by partnering Dialga with Groudon or Tyranitar. The final slot should generally be Thunder due to its perfect accuracy in the rain; with its 30% chance of paralysis, most opponents will think twice before they switch in, since many Dialga checks or counters rely on their Speed. Outrage is an excellent attack to use with or without Bulk Up. Without Bulk Up, Dialga can use Outrage with a Life Orb to 2HKO most Kyogre and Blissey. Bulk Up is a great lure move since it draws in Groudon, which is in turn shut down by STAB Draco Meteor. With Bulk Up, Dialga should be able to even surge through Wish Blissey.</p>

<p>To maximize Dialga’s potential, there are many options in regards to natures and EVs. The suggested EV spread and nature allows Dialga’s Draco Meteor to hit with maximum power and outspeed Adamant Scizor. 144 Atk EVs grant Dialga the ability to 2HKO most Blissey, barring max HP / max Def variants. If you opt for Mild, you should use Expert Belt, since it provides enough power to obtain the same KOs as Life Orb while conserving Dialga’s HP. Hasty, with 64 Atk / 252 SpA / 192 Spe EVs, allows Dialga to outspeed Adamant Rayquaza and Adamant Lucario. Hasty with 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe also works. Outspeeding Adamant Rayquaza means that Dialga’s team is less susceptible to a Swords Dance Rayquaza sweep, though keep in mind that most Dragon Dance and Mixed Rayquaza sets use a positive Speed nature. With a Hasty nature, Dialga will need a Life Orb in order to stay competitive offensively. Because Dialga can survive Choice Scarf Garchomp's Earthquake and even Life Orb Aura Sphere from Mewtwo, Dialga can effectively utilize a spread of 120 HP / 136 Atk / 252 SpA with a Quiet nature in order to survive one of those assaults. Expert Belt is preferable for Quiet Dialga since the main goal is to make sure that Dialga is as healthy as possible in case it needs to take these extreme hits. Life Orb can be used, however, since Dialga can even OHKO Support Groudon with Draco Meteor 100% of the time with a Quiet nature, which is slightly reduced to 87% with Hasty; Stealth Rock and a layer of Spikes assures the KO. Life Orb Outrage also 2HKOes max HP / min Def Kyogre, which means Dialga can be effective at taking out Mono-Attacker Kyogre. Brick Break, with Stealth Rock in play, can also be used to easily 2HKO Heatran, since max HP / min Def variants takes 43-50.8%.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
<p>A couple of move options were left out of the set because they only offer niche results, but are nevertheless effective choices if Dialga needs them. Earth Power means Dialga will never fall to a Heatran switch-in. Stealth Rock is also an option since Dialga forces many switches. Finally, Stone Edge can be used if Dialga’s team has issues with Ho-Oh. While Draco Meteor and Outrage do sufficient damage by themselves, Draco Meteor has the nasty drawback of -2 SpA while Pressure takes away 2 PP in the process. Outrage is risky since Ho-Oh's Sacred Fire has a 50% chance of a burn behind it, and usually has boosted power thanks to most Ho-Oh being used in conjunction with sunlight. These moves can replace either Thunder or Fire Blast. For items, Leftovers and Adamant Orb are viable. Leftovers offer Dialga recovery and works well with the Quiet spread, while Adamant Orb helps bluff Choice Specs.</p>

<p>While Dialga is an intimidating Pokemon, it does require support from its teammates. As shown with just a few damage calculations, Dialga appreciates entry hazards to help it net its KOs. Leads such as Deoxys-S or Deoxys-A are great choices for teammates since they have a high chance of getting Stealth Rock and at least one layer of Spikes up. Forretress is also a great partner as it has the added benefit of removing entry hazards on your side of the field thanks to Rapid Spin. Giratina-O can also be a staple provided that you’re using entry hazards. It has the added benefit of being able to handle Groudon well thanks to its Earthquake immunity and moderate base defensive stats. Since Thunder is reliant on rain, Kyogre is an excellent partner, as not only does its ability boost Thunder’s accuracy to 100%, but it also nullifies Heatran as a threat while making Ho-Oh less effective, thanks to Dialga resisting Brave Bird. Sadly, Groudon doesn’t bring as many benefits to the table as Kyogre does, though Support Groudon is an excellent teammate as it can slow Dialga’s counters down with Thunder Wave while being able to set up Stealth Rock. Since Dialga is great at breaking through defensive teams in general, offensive Pokemon such as Dragon Dance Rayquaza and Swords Dance Garchomp appreciate having Dialga as their partner.</p>

<p>Dialga’s other issues involve its lack of Speed, which leaves it susceptible to being revenge killed by Pokemon such as Mewtwo and Latios. Scarf Garchomp is a great partner since it outspeeds Dragon Dance Rayquaza and Scarf Palkia. Another great Scarf user is Shaymin-S, which can target both Kyogre and Groudon with STAB Seed Flare while outspeeding Rock Polish Groudon. Scarf Tyranitar is rather slow; however, its natural bulk and SpD boost from the sandstorm allows it to be effective at revenge killing non-Dragon Dance Rayquaza, Latias, Latios, Swords Dance Lucario, Heatran, and Ho-Oh. While Wobbuffet is slower than Choice Scarfers, it has the advantage of being able to cushion at least one hit from a Scarf Pokemon before biting the dust. Finally, Heatran does very well at stopping a Mixed Dialga sweep cold, so teammates are needed to handle this situation. Calm Mind Latias is great at switching into Heatran’s attacks due to its great special bulk and resistance to Fire. It only fears Taunt and Explosion, the latter being rare on bulkier Heatran to begin with. Rayquaza’s Air Lock nullifies the sunlight’s boost, and it can switch into Earth Power freely, though it has to be careful with Dragon Pulse variants.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive Bulk Up
move 1: Bulk Up
move 2: Outrage / Dragon Claw
move 3: Rest
move 4: Sleep Talk
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
EVs: 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>This set takes advantage of Dialga’s numerous resistances, well-distributed defensive stats, access to a STAB attack that only has one resistance, and Bulk Up. Bulk Up boosts Dialga’s Attack and Defense stats, which helps power up its Dragon-type attack of choice, as well as increase its chances of survival against physical attacking Pokemon. For example, after a Bulk Up, Dialga can survive Choice Band Garchomp's Earthquake. Once Dialga finds an ideal time to do so, simply Rest off the damage, all the while using Sleep Talk to keep Dialga threatening to the opponent. This set is excellent for absorbing Dark Void from Darkrai since Dialga isn’t deterred by falling asleep. Outrage versus Dragon Claw is a matter of preference between power and reliability. Since Dialga will be boosting its Defense via Bulk Up, max Special Defense is necessary to help Dialga cushion special attacks.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
<p>Skarmory, Lugia, Groudon, Heatran, and Lucario to some extent will cause issues for this set. The best way to address these threats is to have offensively oriented teammates for Dialga. While it will need Aura Sphere to deal with Heatran, Giratina-O stops most Groudon sets cold thanks to STAB Draco Meteor and its immunity to Earthquake. Mixed Rayquaza is also an excellent teammate, since it lures in and takes out many of Dialga’s checks, and doesn’t require any setup time to do so. Rayquaza needs to be aware of its surroundings, however, since switching into any of Dialga's counters will leave your Rayquaza crippled or likely fainted. While Mixed Dialga could check many of its slower enemies with the help of some Speed EV investment or even a Hasty nature, this set has many problems with Pokemon that are faster than it. Some of the recommended Scarf Pokemon mentioned in the Mixed set (Shaymin-S and Garchomp for example) are great assets since Groudon likely outspeeds Dialga.</p>

<p>Sadly, some of the problematic Pokemon that Dialga faces cannot be exactly "countered" per se, but they should definitely be brought to attention while you plan out Dialga's setup. Wobbuffet can cause some issues with this set in particular. It can easily Encore a move and not take damage three-fourths of the time, or two-thirds of the time if Dialga is asleep and locked onto Sleep Talk. Assuming Stealth Rock, Dialga would need three Bulk Ups to nearly KO Wobbuffet with Outrage (80.7% - 95.1%). With Dragon Claw, Dialga needs three Bulk Ups in order to 2HKO Wobbuffet. Since there is no real way of countering Wobbuffet, the best that can be said is “Watch out”. Haban Berry Garchomp cannot always win against this set, but it can either severely damage Dialga or scare it off. Even after a Bulk Up, a Swords Dance-boosted Earthquake from Garchomp will OHKO Dialga 87% of the time. Taunt is uncommon, but it is a relevant threat since it allows Pokemon such as Mewtwo to set up freely when Dialga is asleep. Finally, watch out for Trick; since many Pokemon in the Uber metagame are part Psychic-type, it is a common move to have on Choice sets.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Toxic / Thunder Wave
move 3: Draco Meteor / Dragon Pulse
move 4: Flamethrower / Thunder
item: Leftovers
nature: Modest
EVs: 252 HP / 140 SpA / 116 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>Dialga is unique amongst its Dragon-type cousins because it can play a supporting role effectively. Stealth Rock requires no real explanation, though keep in mind that Dialga should lay down Stealth Rock as soon as possible to prevent Ho-Oh from switching into Dialga freely. The next move is dependent on the type of team that Dialga is supporting. An offensive team appreciates Thunder Wave more than Toxic since the paralysis of threats such as Mewtwo, Darkrai, and Choice Scarf Pokemon is a significant advantage. On the other hand, defensive teams require Toxic to make sure that the opponent’s team won’t out-stall Dialga’s team, since Lugia, Giratina-O, Latias, and the rare Cresselia are all unaffected by Toxic Spikes. Draco Meteor can be used to limit the number of times Groudon can switch freely into this set, while Dragon Pulse offers consistency that keeps Dialga on the field without being a detriment offensively. Flamethrower helps keep Forretress and other Steel-types, barring Dialga and Heatran, from switching into Toxic freely. Thunder works best alongside Kyogre as its Drizzle ability remedies Thunder’s poor accuracy. Thanks to the 30% chance of paralysis, Dialga can operate as a pseudo-double status spreader, since it is free to use Toxic instead of Thunder Wave. Though not mentioned on the set, Roar can be used over the second or fourth moveslot. The reason that Roar can replace a status move is that, assuming Dialga is on a stall team, Toxic Spikes will be already taken care of by one of Dialga's teammates. Since Lugia and Cresselia are the only general threats against Dialga that are immune from Toxic Spikes, Roar can be used to prevent these Pokemon from taking advantage of Dialga. Furthermore, there are likely better teammates that can handle Lugia and Cresselia such as Tyranitar.</p>

<p>The given EVs ensure that an unboosted Timid Kyogre's Water Spout will not 2HKO Dialga. This allows Dialga to Thunder Wave, Stealth Rock, and then switch to the appropriate counter. The Special Attack EVs and Modest nature allow Dialga to always OHKO Darkrai with Draco Meteor, and to always OHKO Palkia with Dragon Pulse after it switches into Stealth Rock once.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
<p>This set can also be used as a lead. The only change needed is Lum Berry as the item and Thunder Wave as the status move. Lum Berry is used to prevent Dialga from being put to sleep by Darkrai leads, allowing Dialga to severely cripple them with Thunder Wave. Dialga is, however, unable to prevent Deoxys-S and Deoxys-A from setting up Stealth Rock and possibly a layer of Spikes.</p>

<p>Dialga, on a stall team, appreciates the residual damage from Spikes and/or Toxic Spikes. Forretress is the best Pokemon for laying down Toxic Spikes in the Uber metagame. This lessens the need for Toxic since the only Pokemon that Toxic Spikes will miss are Levitating and Flying-type Pokemon, and some of them can be removed by Dialga’s Draco Meteor or Dragon Pulse. Forretress can also lay down Spikes, but relying on it to lay down all three layers of Spikes and two layers of Toxic Spikes puts Forretress under a lot of stress. As a lead, Deoxys-S can set up Spikes, since it can forgo Stealth Rock if Dialga opts to use it. Skarmory is an excellent Pokemon in this situation, since it completely walls Groudon barring the rare Overheat, can set up Spikes, has access to a recovery move, and can use Whirlwind to force switches. With entry hazards taken into account, Dialga needs a teammate that can block Rapid Spin. Giratina-O is the best Pokemon for the job.</p>

<p>Offensive teams appreciate Stealth Rock and Thunder Wave or Toxic support. Rayquaza, for example, has an easier time crushing teams if most of the opponent’s Pokemon is slower than it. With Toxic crippling defensive Pokemon, Swords Dance Lucario has an easier time sweeping the opponent. Offensive Groudon loves Support Dialga since many of its checks can be battered by Dialga. Swords Dance Groudon climbs in effectiveness with Thunder Wave support, while Rock Polish Groudon is solid with Toxic support.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Draco Meteor
move 2: Thunder
move 3: Fire Blast / Aura Sphere
move 4: Dragon Pulse / Outrage
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Timid / Hasty
EVs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>Dialga’s lackluster Speed can be fixed with the item Choice Scarf at the cost of locking Dialga onto one attack. Dialga reaches 459 Speed with Choice Scarf, which is enough to outspeed Deoxys-A. Draco Meteor is the primary attack; with Stealth Rock in play Draco Meteor easily OHKOes Darkrai, and has a 33% chance of OHKOing Mewtwo. Thunder is used to 2HKO Lugia after Stealth Rock, and for inflicting severe damage onto Kyogre. Fire Blast can be used to prevent Steel-types from switching in freely, but it relies more on the team having dual weather to support both it and Thunder. Aura Sphere can help reduce the chances of a Lucario and Dialga sweep, while nailing Heatran and Tyranitar for super effective damage. For the fourth moveslot, Dragon Pulse gives Dialga a move that is consistent damage-wise. On the other hand, Outrage, with a Hasty nature, can be used to take down Calm Mind Kyogre; it may also get the 2HKO on Blissey.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
<p>Dialga can use a Modest or Mild nature if you want more power behind Dialga’s attacks. The advantage of outspeeding Dragon Dance Rayquaza may be lost with this change, since many of them opt to run a Jolly nature. With Modest, Dialga OHKOes Mewtwo after Stealth Rock 87% of the time.</p>

<p>Scarf Dialga can handle some walls with careful prediction, but above all else Dialga wants some weather to help it take advantage of Thunder and possibly Fire Blast. Offensive Kyogre and Groudon both appreciate faster Pokemon being picked off by Dialga. Scarf Dialga may be quick, but it does lose to Scarf Palkia, Scarf Garchomp, and Scarf Darkrai in Speed. Groudon can handle Scarf Garchomp and Scarf Palkia most of the time, though beware that continuously taking damage will eventually wear out Groudon due to its lack of recovery. Scarf Darkrai’s only threatening attacks are Dark Void and Focus Blast, the latter having only 70% accuracy. Scizor can switch into Scarf Darkrai safely and OHKO it with U-turn. It can at least take out a weakened Darkrai with Bullet Punch if necessary (54.4% - 64.4%). Finally, be very cautious of Wobbuffet as it can revenge kill Dialga easily thanks to the Choice lock.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Draco Meteor
move 2: Dragon Pulse
move 3: Thunder
move 4: Fire Blast / Aura Sphere
item: Choice Specs
nature: Modest
EVs: 224 HP / 252 SpA / 32 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>If you thought Dialga's meteor showers were already painful enough, then just wait until you see what happens when they are boosted by Choice Specs! Not only does Draco Meteor OHKO Groudon, barring those that heavily invest in Special Defense, but it has enough power to OHKO Lucario. Even max HP Metagross has an 87% chance of being 2HKOed by Draco Meteor. Thunder helps Dialga a lot since the paralysis caters to Dialga’s low Speed. After Stealth Rock, Thunder also OHKOes max HP Kyogre. Fire Blast is used to prevent wasting Draco Meteor's PP on Steel-type Pokemon, while decreasing the chances of Groudon safely switching into Dialga. Since Heatran can cause trouble with its resistance to Dialga’s Dragon-type attacks, Aura Sphere can be used instead. Aura Sphere is also an option over Thunder since Draco Meteor hits hard enough to OHKO min HP Kyogre anyway.</p>

<p>The given EVs allow Dialga to outspeed max Speed Adamant Tyranitar. They also keep Dialga very bulky so it can keep threatening the opponent. If you want Dialga to be faster, you can use 112 Speed EVs to outspeed Adamant Scizor, or max Speed to outspeed the vast majority of bulky 90 base Speed Pokemon, while tying with those that attempt to be agile. Timid is also a good nature since it allows Dialga to outspeed Adamant Rayquaza, while tying with max Speed Jolly Lucario. Dialga can use 192 Speed EVs with a Timid nature to outspeed said Adamant Rayquaza and place the rest of the EVs toward HP.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
<p>Dialga’s biggest issues with this set can all be in fact resolved, but with varying degrees of difficulty. Blissey becomes the biggest counter to this set, since Dialga lacks any way of KOing Blissey reliably unless Blissey is under a third of its health. Because Dialga is great for knocking down the physical walls of Ubers, it appreciates physical attackers as its teammates. Swords Dance Garchomp enjoys Groudon and Lugia being cleared out of the way, and doesn’t falter to Thunder Wave from Blissey. Granted, Garchomp still has to fear Ice Beam, but Blissey oftentimes opts to use Seismic Toss to better handle Dialga, Kyogre, and Palkia. Swords Dance Garchomp with a Haban Berry is sufficient for the job, though Choice Band climbs in effectiveness thanks to many of the Levitating Pokemon being shut down by Draco Meteor or Thunder. Once again, weather is fairly important for this set to work effectively. Much like the Choice Scarf set, beware of Wobbuffet; it poses less of a threat since it is 2HKOed by Dragon Pulse, but it still only takes 40% max from -2 SpA Draco Meteor, which is unimpressive.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Draco Meteor
move 3: Outrage
move 4: Fire Blast / Earthquake
item: Life Orb / Shuca Berry
nature: Quiet
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 SpA
ivs: 30 Atk / 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although it may seem strange to use Trick Room on a Pokemon with Base 90 Speed, Dialga is relatively slow by Ubers standards, which can actually let Dialga sweep if it sets up. With a Quiet nature and the listed IVs, Dialga reaches 166 Speed, which allows it to outpace virtually every common threat in Ubers when Trick Room is active. Since Dialga has no use for Speed EVs, it can maximize both its Attack and Special Attack, allowing it to abuse two powerful STAB attacks: Draco Meteor and Outrage. With a Life Orb boost, Dialga functions as a powerful wallbreaker, as it can simultaneously nail both physical walls and special sponges such as Groudon and Blissey, respectively. The final slot is dedicated to hitting Steel-types that resist Dialga's powerful Dragon-type attacks. Fire Blast will roast most Steels in the sun, but Earthquake is a suitable alternative if you want to be able to effectively damage Steel-types in the rain, while also allowing Dialga to easily KO Heatran. Earthquake also isn't weakened if Draco Meteor has been previously used.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>When using Fire Blast, it is recommended to set Dialga to level 99. This is because the standard Ubers Scizor hits 166 Speed, which means it ties with minimum Speed Dialga when it's at level 100. At level 99, Dialga will outpace Scizor after it sets up Trick Room and can OHKO the steel bug with Fire Blast. However, if you choose to use Earthquake, Dialga should remain at level 100 since it won't be able to beat Scizor regardless. Another option to consider is Shuca Berry instead of Life Orb. While Life Orb is generally superior to boost Dialga's already powerful attacks, Shuca Berry will allow Dialga to survive a Life Orb-boosted Earthquake from Groudon and set up Trick Room.</p>

<p>Not many Pokemon have the bulk to survive Dialga's onslaught, since it can hit on both the special and physical side extremely hard. Lugia is a counter that comes to mind because it can outstall Dialga with Roost as Life Orb recoil accumulates. Wobbuffett can't be OHKOed by any of Dialga's attacks, and can take out Dialga in one shot with either Mirror Coat or Counter. If Dialga isn't set to level 99 or doesn't pack a Fire-type move, Scizor will gladly switch in and OHKO Dialga with Superpower. By the same token, any Dialga without Fire Blast will be hard-pressed to hurt Skarmory and Forretress. Without Earthquake, Heatran will completely wall Dialga, while Jirachi and Metagross can do the same in the rain. When Trick Room is not up, Dialga must be careful against Groudon if it doesn't have a Shuca Berry, as it will OHKO Dialga with a powerful Earthquake.</p>

<p>Dialga makes a great "selfish" user of Trick Room thanks to its blistering offenses, but there are still several Pokemon you should consider pairing it with. Swords Dance Groudon is a wonderful partner for Dialga, since it can take advantage of Trick Room to outpace and OHKO Lugia after Stealth Rock. With Swords Dance, Groudon also fares well against most Steel-types that wall Dialga, as even Skarmory can't keep up with boosted Stone Edges or Fire Punches. Wobbuffet has great synergy with Dialga because it can use Encore to give Dialga a chance to set up Trick Room, and in turn can use Dialga's Trick Room to outpace virtually everything in the metagame. Other Pokemon that can set up Trick Room are worthwhile partners for Dialga. For example, Bronzong can wall Groudon and further help Dialga by setting up Trick Room, while Palkia can take a more offensive approach and still maintain the ability to set up Trick Room. If you aren't using Dialga in a full Trick Room team, you might want to invest in fast sweepers like Mewtwo and Darkrai that can help clear a path for Dialga to sweep late-game.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Outrage
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Dragon Claw
move 4: Overheat / Stone Edge
item: Choice Band
nature: Adamant
EVs: 224 HP / 252 Atk / 32 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>Finally, a set other than Bulk Up that doesn’t call for the spamming of Draco Meteor! With this set, Dialga forgoes special attacks in order to catch many of its switch-ins off-guard. Don’t assume that Groudon has the upper hand against this set; unless Groudon invests heavily in its Defense stat, it is 2HKOed by Outrage. Earthquake complements Outrage by giving Dialga a wide amount of coverage against the Uber metagame; it prevents most Steel-types, especially Heatran, from switching in safely. Dragon Claw should be your third move as Outrage lock puts Dialga in grave danger if you’re not aware of the rest of the opponent's Pokemon. The fourth move depends on whether you prefer shutting down the majority of Steel-types, notably Skarmory, or annihilating Ho-Oh and keeping Lugia away from Dialga.</p>

<p>The EV structure is very similar to the Choice Specs set, with the only difference being not recommending a positive Speed nature. Outspeeding Adamant Tyranitar is the minimum amount of Speed Dialga should use. You can opt to use 116 Speed EVs to outspeed Adamant Scizor, or max Speed to tie with Adamant Lucario or Modest Kyogre at worst. Jolly nature with max Speed and max Attack allows Dialga to get the upper hand on Adamant Rayquaza at the cost of sheer attacking power.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
<p>Choice Band Dialga has the exact opposite problems that Choice Specs has. Outrage is a powerful attack, but it prevents Dialga from switching out from a troublesome position. Dialga trades being able to handle Heatran and Ho-Oh (unless it has Stone Edge) for having issues with Lugia, Impish Groudon, and Skarmory (unless it has Overheat). While Lucario can’t take much of a beating, it can switch into Stone Edge and freely set up Swords Dance followed by quickly KOing Dialga with Close Combat. Powerful special attackers and mixed attackers are recommended for this reason. Mixed Rayquaza can outspeed and annihilate most of these Pokemon when they switch in.. Mewtwo is pretty effective here since Taunt completely shuts down Lugia and Skarmory, allowing Mewtwo to set up Calm Mind freely. Its only fear is Blissey that carry Seismic Toss, which Dialga can at least handle to an extent. As a partner, Wobbuffet can set up Encore + Tickle, then follow up with a Pokemon that knows Pursuit to kill off the opposing physical wall. Beware that Impish Groudon sometimes carry Toxic, which will harm Wobbuffet's effectiveness.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Dialga has loads of other options that can work as potential support moves. Psych Up can be useful on Dialga, allowing it to copy the stat boosts that Calm Mind Kyogre may have netted. Dialga is a great user of Trick Room in Ubers too, having brilliant all-around stats bar Speed. Flash Cannon is an auxiliary STAB attack, but Steel is a poor offensive type. Ice Beam with Choice Specs allows Dialga to OHKO Groudon without resorting to Draco Meteor or Overheat, but is otherwise generally a poor choice. Iron Tail should be avoided, because as already noted, Steel is a poor offensive type, and its 75% accuracy leaves much to be desired.</p>

<p>Magnet Rise can be a good option on some Dialga sets, as it can foil Dialga's arch enemy, Groudon. If you opt for Bulk Up with Magnet Rise, then use the EV spread of 116 HP / 252 Atk / 140 Spe. This allows Dialga to Bulk Up as Groudon switches in, use Magnet Rise before most Groudon can move, and then either hit the next switch-in hard with Outrage or Earthquake, or use Bulk Up again.</p>

<p>Roar of Time sounds and looks cool, but is in fact a terrible move to use, as is the rest of the Hyper Beam suite; Draco Meteor and even Dragon Pulse out-damages it over the course of two turns, and the unavoidable second turn recharge is a perfect opportunity for something threatening to set up. As for items, Choice Scarf can be used with physical moves if so desired, but without the extra power of Choice Band, the attacks will be too weak to be useful.</p>

<p>252 HP / 116 SpD with a neutral nature allow Dialga to never be 2HKOed by Kyogre's Choice Scarf Water Spout, provided Dialga holds Leftovers. 252 HP / 44 Def, again with a neutral nature, will allow Dialga to never be 2HKOed by Mewtwo's Life Orb Brick Break, or OHKOed by its Focus Punch.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Simply put, Dialga is hard to counter. How it can be countered depends a lot on the weather conditions and the moveset it is using. In general, Ho-Oh and Heatran can counter Dialga while under sunny conditions. The biggest thing to note is that Thunder’s accuracy is cut to 50% under the sun, which means a 15% chance that Ho-Oh and Heatran will be hit by Thunder followed by paralysis. Meanwhile, Ho-Oh’s Sacred Fire has a 50% chance to inflict a burn on Dialga, which hampers the Mixed and Choice Band sets. With Ho-Oh’s access to recovery, Pressure, and a high Special Defense stat, Dialga is in trouble when it only has Stone Edge to kill Ho-Oh. Heatran can shut down the Bulk Up set with a simple use of Taunt, while fearing only Earthquake or Aura Sphere at worst from Dialga. If rain is present, then a more cautious approach to countering Dialga is necessary, as a 30% chance of paralysis from Thunder is nothing to scoff at. Scizor comes relatively close as a counter since Fire Blast is weakened in the rain, while Scizor can fire off Superpower at Dialga for super effective damage. Metagross can step into the scene and fire off Earthquake at Dialga, or use Trick on sets such as Bulk Up or Support to cripple Dialga. It also does well at countering the Choice Band set, though beware of stepping into either Earthquake or Overheat in the sun.</p>

<p>Groudon is a good counter since it threatens Dialga with STAB Earthquake, and has access to Roar to nullify the Bulk Up set. Offensive Groudon has an easier time KOing Dialga since many opponents opt to use a -Def nature on Dialga's mixed set. Blissey can take on both the Specs set and the Scarf set, though beware that the Scarf set can carry Outrage to try to 2HKO Blissey. Skarmory does well at countering the physical Dialga sets, especially the Bulk Up set which has no answer against Skarmory, except if Skarmory and Dialga are the last Pokemon standing. Lugia has to avoid switching into Stone Edge and Thunder at all costs, but it is otherwise a great counter to Dialga while the sun is out. It can set up Reflect to deter the Choice Band set, while Whirlwind deals with the Bulk Up set. Tyranitar, especially those that invest in Special Defense, can be a great Dialga check when Tyranitar is at full health. Wobbuffet can be an annoying Pokemon for Dialga to deal with, since Dialga lacks Taunt or a powerful enough move to OHKO Wobbuffet on the spot. It has to beware of the Mixed set when Draco Meteor is at full power though.</p>

<p>Since Dialga is a slow Pokemon, you can use faster Pokemon to revenge kill it. This strategy fails when Dialga carries a Choice Scarf, but it is still the safest way of dealing with most Dialga sets. Latios using Dragon Pulse does 48.5% - 57.4% on Support Dialga, which means Latios 2HKOes non-Bulk Up Dialga without relying on Draco Meteor 93% of the time. Latias can switch in safely after Dialga has expended a Draco Meteor and start setting up Calm Minds. Life Orb Mewtwo's Aura Sphere can OHKO min HP / min SpD Dialga 43% of the time while Specs Aura Sphere will always OHKO. Deoxys-A has access to Superpower to obliterate Dialga on the spot, as it does around the same damage as Mewtwo's Choice Specs Aura Sphere. Garchomp has access to STAB Earthquake to make sure Dialga doesn't stay in comfortably. Darkrai can use Dark Void to nullify every set barring the Bulk Up set, while OHKOing Dialga with a Nasty Plot-boosted Focus Blast.</p>