[Overview]

<p>Although Froslass is not as fast as Deoxys or as sturdy as Forretress, she is still one of the best choices for a Spikes lead in Ubers. Unlike Deoxys, Froslass blocks Rapid Spin by virtue of its Ghost typing, meaning that its Spikes will not be removed so easily. Froslass can also use Destiny Bond to KO the opponent's Pokemon after setting up Spikes, making her more of a threat than Deoxys. Forretress is also often a bad choice for offensive teams due to its low Speed and vulnerability to being set up on. Froslass's spinblocking combined with her great Speed stat and ability to take down Deoxys and Rayquaza leads with ease make her an excellent choice as a Spikes lead for offensive teams that would normally struggle against those leads. Froslass's only downfalls are that she is frail and her attacks are weak, but the ice queen is meant to support rather than sweep.</p>

[SET]
name: Spikes Lead
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Icy Wind
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Destiny Bond / Hidden Power Fire / Taunt
item: Focus Sash
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[Set Comments]

<p>Froslass is an ideal choice as a lead for offensive teams, as she is able to set up Spikes quickly and efficiently while beating some other leads that most offensive teams have a hard time fighting off, such as Rayquaza and Deoxys. Although Deoxys is faster than Froslass and can set up Stealth Rock as well as Spikes, Froslass has no fear of her Spikes being removed by Rapid Spin, courtesy of her Ghost typing.</p>

<p>Icy Wind OHKOes lead Rayquaza about 50% of the time; Froslass will not lose to lead Rayquaza even if it has Focus Sash thanks to her higher Speed and immunity to ExtremeSpeed. It also allows Froslass to beat Deoxys leads reliably. After one use of Icy Wind, Deoxys will be slower than Froslass and will put it into KO range for Shadow Ball. (Maximum HP Deoxys has about a 50% chance to survive a Shadow Ball after an Icy Wind, however, so watch out.) Shadow Ball also 2HKOes lead Mew. If against a slower lead such as Groudon, Kyogre, or Dialga, you have different options to take. You can either set up two layers of Spikes (Focus Sash guarantees Froslass will survive at least one attack) or set up one layer of Spikes and use Destiny Bond as the opposing lead attacks for a quick KO. If the enemy lead chooses to use a support move such as Stealth Rock before attacking, Froslass will get an extra layer of Spikes set-up. Hidden Power Fire can be used over Destiny Bond to 2HKO lead Forretress. It also gives Froslass a way to threaten said Forretress if you switch her in later to block Rapid Spin. (Be wary of Payback.) Taunt is also a good option to stop leads such as Groudon and Dialga from using Stealth Rock.</p>

[Additional Comments]

<p>The EVs are very basic. Maximum Special Attack is required to always get the KOes on the specified leads mentioned previously. Maximum Speed with a Timid nature allows Froslass to Speed tie with other positive natured Pokemon in the base 110 Speed stat group, such as Latios, and possibly revenge-kill them with Destiny Bond if needed; however, if Froslass has Hidden Power Fire, she will fail to outpace them due to the drop in the Speed IV.</p>

<p>Since Froslass is primarily going to be used on offensive teams, any sweeper will love having Spikes support to help weaken their respective counters. Rock Polish Groudon, Swords Dance Lucario, Rayquaza, Latios, and Kyogre are just a few examples. The main support Froslass will need is teammates that help take care of the leads that can shut her down. Choice Scarf Darkrai is Froslass's worst nemesis, as Dark Void will prevent Froslass from doing anything. Tyranitar can also KO Froslass with Crunch and sandstorm damage, meaning that she will only be able to set up one layer of Spikes if she stays in. Since the sandstorm will KO Froslass, Tyranitar cannot be forced out with the threat of Destiny Bond. Scizor can also bypass Froslass's good Speed with Bullet Punch, meaning that she must only set up one layer or switch out. Although Shaymin-S is OHKOed by Icy Wind, the 60% flinch chance of Air Slash (factoring in Serene Grace) means that Froslass may not even be able to do anything against it. Finally, if Froslass lacks Hidden Power Fire, Forretress can simply KO Froslass with Payback and then Rapid Spin away the Spikes she has set up. Mixed Dialga can easily come in on lead Scizor, Forretress, Tyranitar, and Shaymin-S thanks to its resistances to Steel-, Dark-, and Flying-type attacks, and destroy them all with Fire Blast (in Tyranitar's case, Brick Break). It can also set up Stealth Rock to further weaken your opponent's team. Groudon can easily switch in on Tyranitar and Scizor leads to set up for a sweep with Rock Polish or to use Stealth Rock to help support the team. A Pokemon with Sleep Talk, such as Kyogre or Heracross, can easily switch in on Darkrai's Dark Void without being completely crippled. If you're feeling daring, you can switch Wobbuffet in on Choice Scarf Darkrai's Dark Void. You can then just sit there and do nothing until Darkrai runs out of PP and is forced to KO itself via Struggle. However, if Darkrai decides instead to use Dark Pulse or is not a Choice Scarf variant, Wobbuffet and likely another chunk of your team will probably receive a death sentence.</p>

<p>Most of Froslass's teammates are mentioned in the set description, but there are a few other Pokemon that work especially well with her. Having another Ghost-type Pokemon is helpful to pair with Froslass if you decide not to run Hidden Power Fire, so Forretress can't easily spin away your entry hazards. Giratina-O is a great teammate since it is bulky enough to take a Payback or two if it accidentally switches in on one, and it can use Hidden Power Fire to roast Forretress. Stealth Rock support is also recommended, since Spikes cannot hurt Flying-types or Pokemon with Levitate. Dialga and Groudon are probably the best choices to set up Stealth Rock, as they work well on the offensive teams that Froslass will most likely be used on, and they also help beat the leads the ice queen can't, such as Scizor, Forretress, and Tyranitar. Using Forretress lures such as Hidden Power Fire Latias or Flamethrower Mewtwo is also a handy way to dispose of the little shell before he can cause trouble by removing all of your entry hazards with Rapid Spin. Latias is notable since it can lure in and KO Scizor with Hidden Power Fire, which gives Froslass a little more breathing room to come in and set up Spikes. Magnezone can also trap and KO Pokemon such as Forretress and Scizor who might hinder Froslass's ability to set up. It can also take Shaymin-S's Air Slashes with little trouble.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Froslass does not have many other viable options in Ubers. Ice Shard allows Froslass to 2HKO Choice Scarf Shaymin-S leads, bypassing its great Speed stat and thus leaving Froslass at no risk of being flinched. Ice Shard will also always 2HKO Rayquaza leads (provided one round of Life Orb recoil damage has been taken). However, Shadow Ball + Ice Shard will never OHKO max HP Deoxys-S. Trick can be used to cripple bulky set-up leads like Dialga and Groudon, but it is usually better to KO them with Destiny Bond. In addition, Froslass will often not get to do anything else after Tricking her item away if attacked, due to her pathetic defenses. You may be tempted to use Froslass as a sweeper with Life Orb or Choice Specs; however, Gengar outclasses her completely in that role due to his much higher Special Attack, access to Explosion, and greater ease switching in. Unlike Froslass, Gengar is not weak to Stealth Rock and is immune to Spikes, Toxic Spikes, and Ground-type attacks.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Lead Darkrai is Froslass's biggest nightmare, since Dark Void will stop her from setting up completely. Shaymin-S is faster than Froslass as well and can potentially flinch Froslass with Air Slash, leaving her unable to set up Spikes. Tyranitar will OHKO Froslass with Crunch due to the sandstorm removing her Focus Sash. Scizor can use Bullet Punch to circumvent Froslass's great Speed and KO her. Forretress can spin away Froslass's Spikes and only fears Froslass with Hidden Power Fire. Any lead that stops Froslass from setting up more than one layer of Spikes is a nuisance, but she can always switch out to set up Spikes later in the match.</p>