[Overview]

<p>Heatran fills a unique niche in the Uber tier thanks to its stellar typing and monstrous Special Attack. Heatran retains its role from the OU environment by toasting opposing Steel-types that stand in its way, as well as stopping any offensive Shaymin-S not packing Earth Power, something not a lot of other Pokemon can claim. Heatran also resists or is immune to four key attacking types commonly found in Ubers: Fire-, Ghost-, Dark-, and Dragon-type. While it may be literally scared to death by the ubiquitous Kyogre and the tiniest of earthly tremors, Heatran functions well in the Uber tier when partnered with Groudon and its ever-lasting sun. However, don't expect it to be able to take too much punishment.</p>

[SET]
name: Stallbreaker
move 1: Taunt
move 2: Roar
move 3: Flamethrower / Lava Plume
move 4: Dragon Pulse / Toxic
item: Leftovers
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 128 SpD / 128 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Heatran appears to be an odd choice for a stallbreaker in the Uber tier at first, especially considering its weaknesses to common attacks of the Fighting-, Ground-, and Water-type. However, Heatran's excellent set of resistances and immunities, most notably to Dragon- and Fire-type attacks, coupled with its acceptable defensive stats give it ample opportunities to switch in and do its job. Heatran can force switches with Roar, compounding entry hazard damage; it can also use Taunt to prevent the likes of Bulk Up Dialga, Giratina, and Blissey from recovering their health. Of course, one cannot forget that Heatran still has Flash Fire and a magnificent Special Attack stat, and is capable of inflicting serious damage to the opposing team with its STAB Flamethrower.</p>

<p>Flamethrower is the preferred attack due to its combination of consistency and power, but Lava Plume may be used instead for the increased chance of burning opposing Pokemon. Dragon Pulse allows Heatran to deal quick damage to Dragon-types and pairs well with its Fire-type STAB, hitting everything barring an opposing Heatran for at least neutral damage. However, Dragon Pulse isn't powerful enough to handle Latias and Latios due to their magnificent Special Defense and Recover. Toxic provides Heatran with a way to severely cripple the Dragon / Psychic twins, as well as the defensive behemoth known as Lugia. Finally, Protect can also be used in the last slot to scout for unexpected Earthquakes or Earth Powers from the likes of Giratina-O and Dialga. It also aids in prediction against Choiced opponents, and can help Heatran recover a bit more health with Leftovers. Toxic Spikes support is a must if you decide to use Protect, however, as Heatran loses some coverage without Dragon Pulse or Toxic.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread on this set is fairly simple. 252 HP EVs grant Heatran extra overall bulk, while the Speed EVs allow it to outrun the standard defensive Groudon, Giratina, Dialga, and Deoxys-D. The remaining EVs are thrown into Special Defense to help Heatran switch into the dominant special attacks in the Ubers metagame, particularly the powerful Draco Meteors from the likes of Dialga, Palkia, Giratina-O, and mixed Rayquaza. The Special Defense EVs also give Heatran a bonus point, which is cool. Since this set's purpose is not to deal heavy damage to opposing Pokemon via attacking, no Special Attack investment is required.</p>

<p>To fully realize this set's potential, a fair amount of support is required. First and foremost, entry hazards are absolutely crucial to this set's success. Forretress can set up Spikes and Toxic Spikes&mdash;both of which contribute to the effectiveness of this set&mdash;and bait Fire-type attacks for Heatran to switch into. The ability to clear away entry hazards on your side of the field is also helpful, as Heatran is vulnerable to Spikes. Although Deoxys-S is incapable of using Toxic Spikes and Rapid Spin, it can quickly lay down Spikes so that Heatran may begin its rampage early. Deoxys-S can also set up Stealth Rock, but this Heatran prefers Spikes; setting up Stealth Rock can be left to other Pokemon. Groudon is without a doubt the best Pokemon for this role, as it also provides much-needed sunlight for Heatran. Additionally, Groudon can ward off physical Rayquaza and Tyranitar who would otherwise murder Heatran with Earthquake. Finally, a spinblocker is required so that the opponent cannot simply Rapid Spin the entry hazards away. Giratina-O is perfect for the job, as it also has excellent defensive synergy with Heatran. Giratina is another viable choice due to its higher defenses.</p>

<p>By far the biggest threat to Heatran is Kyogre, as it can override the sun with Drizzle and OHKO Heatran with Surf. Latias is an excellent partner since she handles Kyogre with relative ease and has spectacular defensive synergy with Heatran. Palkia can defeat Choice Specs and Choice Scarf Kyogre thanks to its 4x resistance to Water-type attacks, but has trouble with Calm Mind variants. Heatran also covers Palkia's sole weakness to Dragon-type attacks. As this Heatran set has no form of recovery outside of Leftovers, other teammates that absorb Dragon-type attacks can relieve some of the stress from Heatran. Jirachi is a particularly good choice as it can also pass Wish to Heatran; be aware, however, that Jirachi compounds Heatran's weakness to Ground-type attacks. Scizor and the aforementioned Forretress are not weak to Ground-type attacks, and can take a few Dragon-type attacks as well. Both Pokemon are capable of defeating the occasional Earthquake Giratina-O, as it rarely carries both Hidden Power Fire and Earthquake. Blissey is also a great partner for Heatran as she can fulfill most of the requirements mentioned above, and can take care of Latias and Latios, allowing Heatran to use Dragon Pulse instead of Toxic. Be wary when facing opposing Heatran, as they may carry Earth Power. Since these more offensive Heatran tend to lack anti-stall techniques, the aforementioned Blissey and Latias will often take care of them.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Heatran is fully capable of running an offensive set consisting of Fire Blast, Dragon Pulse, Earth Power, and Explosion while holding either a Life Orb or a Choice item. Heatran's largest selling point when running such a set is the large number of resistances Heatran possesses. Heatran is generally a bit too frail to pull such a set off effectively, though, and there are many other Pokemon in Ubers that can fill the same role but with better offensive prowess. Dark Pulse is another attack that hits a lot of Pokemon in Ubers for super effective damage, but Heatran's other moves provide better overall coverage. If you're terrified of opposing Ho-Oh walking all over Heatran, you could run Stone Edge to quickly clip its wings; outside of that though, there isn't much use for it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Heatran is far more one dimensional in Ubers than in the OU environment, so don't fret too much when faced with one. Just remember, Ground-type attacks and Kyogre will absolutely wreck Heatran. Garchomp and offensive Groudon can easily stomp Heatran into the dust with STAB Earthquake, while Kyogre can maim it with Surf and has Drizzle to dampen Heatran's Fire-type attacks. Outside of those primary checks, there exist a few other Pokemon that can give Heatran a headache. Palkia and Manaphy can put Heatran down with STAB Surf, Lucario can outrun non-Scarf Heatran and tear it to pieces with Close Combat, and Ho-Oh can eliminate it with Earthquake if it gets in on a move outside of Toxic and Stone Edge. If Heatran lacks Dragon Pulse or Hidden Power Ice, then a whole slew of Dragon-types, including Giratina-O, Rayquaza, and even Salamence, can come in and threaten it. Latias and Latios can also beat Heatran if they have Thunder and the weather is rain. Those two should beware of Toxic, though, and avoid setting up unless you're sure that Heatran lacks Roar.</p>