[Overview]

<p>Salamence has one big selling point in the Ubers metagame: pairing it with Rayquaza forms an effective offensive partnership that is almost impossible to counter! This strategy is not without its drawbacks though - since Salamence and Rayquaza have the same typing, this means that your team will have at least two Rock-, Ice- and Dragon-type weaknesses. Due to this fact, Salamence cannot just be thrown in any team, it should be paired with Rayquaza and have a team centered around covering their drawbacks.</p>

<p>Even though Salamence is mostly outclassed by Rayquaza, do not let this fool you into thinking that it is not a threat. Salamence is still very capable of tearing its opponents to shreds in the Ubers metagame, whether it's with its Dragon Dance set or its mixed set. Overall, Salamence is an unorthodox yet deadly Pokémon in Ubers.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Outrage
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Fire Blast / Flamethrower 
item: Life Orb
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As a Dragon Dance sweeper, Salamence is normally outclassed by Rayquaza. However, when used alongside Rayquaza, Dragon Dance Salamence can be a powerful asset in the Uber metagame. Dragon Dance Salamence's main advantage over Garchomp as a Rayquaza partner lies in the Speed boost that Dragon Dance gives it. Unlike Garchomp, Salamence will outspeed and OHKO Pokémon such as Mewtwo, Darkrai, and Choice Scarf Kyogre after one turn of set-up.</p>

<p>Although Salamence may not be as powerful as Rayquaza, Outrage will still do an insane amount of damage to any Pokémon who doesn't resist it. After one Dragon Dance, Salamence with Life Orb will always OHKO Shaymin-S, Darkrai, offensive Mewtwo and max HP Kyogre with Outrage. A +1 Outrage will also deal 79.13% - 93.5% to 112 HP Groudon, and 54.95% - 64.85% to an Impish Groudon with max HP and max Defense. Even the standard max HP / 64 Defense Timid Lugia, which normally gives Salamence trouble, suffers 71.4% - 84.4% from a boosted Outrage (approximately a 20% chance to KO after Stealth Rock damage and Leftovers recovery)! Earthquake's main purpose is to hit grounded Steel-types, such as Dialga and Metagross, harder than Outrage would. A boosted Earthquake always OHKO max HP Metagross and min HP Dialga, after Stealth Rock damage; however, a max HP Dialga will be OHKOed by a +1 Earthquake around 92% of the time after it takes Stealth Rock damage. The final moveslot is a choice between Fire Blast and Flamethrower. Even with a Special Attack reducing nature, Fire Blast will deal 88.02% - 104.19% to a specially defensive Skarmory in the sun. If you only wish to OHKO Scizor and Forretress in the sun (or 2HKO them in the rain), then Flamethrower is a fine choice for its perfect accuracy.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As mentioned before, the most important part of Salamence is to use it with Rayquaza. Rayquaza and Salamence are very similar Pokémon, both being nearly uncounterable Dragon-types that can defeat or greatly weaken each other's checks and thus open up sweeps for the other. A great Rayquaza set to use with Dragon Dance Salamence is mixed Rayquaza. Rayquaza will often lure in defensive Groudon and Lugia, both potential problems for Dragon Dance Salamence. Defensive Groudon, while 2HKOed by a +1 Outrage, is able to cripple Salamence with Thunder Wave. Meanwhile, Lugia OHKOs Salamence with Ice Beam after it takes Stealth Rock damage. Mixed Rayquaza will deal such a massive amount of damage to Groudon with Draco Meteor that if Groudon lives, it will no longer be able to survive against a boosted Salamence. Meanwhile, Rayquaza will 2HKO slower Lugia with Draco Meteor after it takes damage from Stealth Rock. You can also make Rayquaza use Fire Blast to crisp Steel-type Pokémon as they switch in. With the removal of Lugia and/or Groudon, Dragon Dance Salamence is much harder to stop. Swords Dance / Dragon Dance Rayquaza can also be a good teammate for Dragon Dance Salamence, simply because many teams have a hard time handling two, powerful Dragon-type sweepers. There is another type of Rayquaza that has not been mentioned but is still a great teammate for Salamence: Haban Berry Rayquaza. After the use of a Dragon Dance, opponents will often attempt to revenge kill it with Choice Scarf Palkia or Choice Scarf Garchomp. Thanks to Haban Berry, Rayquaza will live through any of their attacks (bar a Draco Meteor from Palkia after Stealth Rock damage), and then OHKO both of them. With Choice Scarf Palkia and Choice Scarf Garchomp out of the way, Salamence will have a much easier time sweeping.</p>

<p>Something to note about Dragon Dance Salamence is that, unlike Rayquaza, Salamence will Speed tie with Choice Scarf Palkia after a Dragon Dance. This is significant because if Choice Scarf Palkia loses the Speed tie, then not only will Salamence have a good chance of sweeping, but it can also open up a sweep for its teammates. A great example of this is Dragon Dance Rayquaza, who is often only checked by Choice Scarf Palkia on most teams. Dragon Dance Rayquaza can also help out Salamence due to its chance of OHKOing Lugia with a boosted Stone Edge (or Outrage if Rayquaza is Adamant) after it takes damage from Stealth Rock. Darkrai, Choice Specs Kyogre, and mixed Palkia can also take advantage of Dragon Dance Salamence defeating Choice Scarf Palkia. Salamence is also capable of pulling off the same trick against Choice Scarf Jirachi. With Choice Scarf Jirachi out of the way, Rayquaza will have a much easier time sweeping.</p>

<p>In addition to having the aforementioned problems with Lugia and defensive Groudon, Dragon Dance Salamence will also have problems with Choice Scarf Garchomp. Thanks to Choice Scarf and Garchomp's superior Speed stat, it will outspeed Salamence, even after a Dragon Dance, and OHKO with Outrage. Choice Scarf Mewtwo, Gengar, Shaymin-S, and Darkrai will outspeed Salamence after a Dragon Dance as well and OHKO it with an Ice-type attack. The most common way of defeating Dragon Dance Salamence in Ubers is to switch to a Steel-type as Salamence uses Outrage. Scizor and Skarmory can especially be problematic; in the rain, Skarmory will wall Salamence's entire moveset with ease and Whirlwind it away while on the other hand, Scizor is 2HKOed by a boosted Outrage, but it will 2HKO Salamence with a Choice Band boosted Bullet Punch (and will even have a chance to OHKO Salamence after Salamence takes Life Orb and Stealth Rock damage).</p>

<p>Wobbuffet is heavily recommended as a Salamence partner because of these problems, and for other reasons. Wobbuffet is able to revenge kill Choice Scarf Garchomp, Choice Scarf Gengar, Choice Scarf Shaymin-S, and Choice Scarf Mewtwo thanks to Counter, Mirror Coat, and Shadow Tag, and can also defeat Choice Band Scizor that are locked into Bullet Punch. Tickle Wobbuffet can be paired with a Pursuit user (such as Scizor or Metagross) to effectively defeat Lugia. Finally, Wobbuffet can set up both Salamence and Rayquaza by Encoring a weak attack or support move. This is particularly notable against a weakened Groudon, which Wobbuffet can take advantage of by Encoring Earthquake, giving Salamence the perfect opportunity to set up. Scizor, Metagross, and other offensive Steel-types will work well with Salamence due to their ability to deal a heavy amount of damage to Garchomp that is locked into Outrage, and for their ability to take Scizor's Bullet Punch. Scizor is especially notable for being able to Pursuit Mewtwo, Gengar and Shaymin-S that are locked into an Ice-type attack that was aimed at Salamence, and for its ability to defeat Choice Scarf Darkrai. Metagross and Tyranitar are also capable of dealing with Choice Scarf Gengar and Choice Scarf Mewtwo with Pursuit. Dialga not only sports a helpful resistance to Bullet Punch, but can also use a mixed set with Bulk Up to lure in Groudon and Skarmory, only to crush them with Draco Meteor and a sun-boosted Fire Blast respectively. Groudon's 140 base Defense stat allows it to take Scizor's Bullet Punch with ease, and is also capable of OHKOing Skarmory switch-ins with Overheat. Kyogre can take on both Lugia's Ice Beams and Scizor's Bullet Punches, and threaten blast them with its rain-boosted STAB Surfs. Kyogre will also have no problem switching into Choiced Ice-type attacks from Darkrai, Mewtwo and Shaymin-S. Finally, Mewtwo is not only capable of setting up on Lugia via Taunt and Calm Mind, but can also act as a good Scizor lure with Flamethrower or Fire Blast.</p>

[SET]
name: Wallbreaker
move 1: Draco Meteor
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Outrage
move 4: Dragon Dance
item: Life Orb
nature: Naive 
evs: 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike the last set, this set puts Salamence in the role of helping Rayquaza sweep. Salamence may seem outclassed as a mixed attacking partner for Rayquaza when compared to more powerful wallbreakers, such as Dialga and Palkia, but Salamence sports two key advantages over them. First, since Dialga and Palkia's most common sets are either pure special attackers or Choiced sets, Pokemon such as Wobbuffet and Blissey - who give Rayquaza no problems - may switch in. On the other hand, Salamence is treated similarly to Rayquaza, which allows it to badly damage Rayquaza's counters. Unlike Garchomp, Salamence is capable of harming Rayquaza's checks without a turn of set up. The other big selling point of mixed Salamence as a Rayquaza partner is Dragon Dance, which can allow Salamence to sweep a weakened team later in the match.</p> 

<p>While Salamence's base 110 Special Attack may seem meager when compared to the more powerful Dragon-types of Ubers, Draco Meteor still does a huge amount of damage to any Pokémon who doesn't resist it (with the exception of Blissey). For example, max HP Groudon (a common Salamence switch-in) will take 71.29% - 84.16% from Draco Meteor, allowing Rayquaza to possibly sweep due to Groudon either being 2HKOed by Salamence, or being put into the KO range of Rayquaza's attacks. Draco Meteor will also OHKO several common Choice Scarfed switch-ins that expect Salamence to use Dragon Dance, such as Darkrai, Garchomp and Shaymin-S (around 87% of the time without Stealth Rock). Finally, Draco Meteor will have around a 53% chance to OHKO 4 HP Mewtwo after it takes Stealth Rock damage. Fire Blast is Salamence's main move against the Steel-types that resist Draco Meteor - in the rain, only the most specially defensive Scizor will survive Fire Blast while Forretress will take 83.62% - 99.44%. In the sunny weather, Fire Blast will OHKO Scizor, Forretress, Metagross, Skarmory, and even 2HKO Groudon.</p> 

<p>Outrage is Salamence's physical move of choice, as it will still do a large amount of damage despite the minimal Attack investment. Outrage is Salamence's best move against Blissey, dealing 66.41% - 78.22%. Outrage is also important for its ability to KO many important Pokémon after they take damage from Draco Meteor. For example, the standard Bold Max HP Lugia with 52 Defense EVs is KOed by a combination of Draco Meteor and Outrage around 98% of the time after factoring in Stealth Rock damage and Leftovers recovery. Additionally, Ho-Oh, maximum HP Kyogre, minimum Special Defense Dialga and Calm Wobbuffet (after Stealth Rock damage) are KOed by Outrage after switching into Draco Meteor. Be warned though, Draco Meteor plus Outrage will only have around a 58% chance and 57% chance to KO specially defensive Dialga and Bold Lugia with maximum HP and maximum Defense respectively after Stealth Rock.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Although this Salamence has little investment in its Attack, it is still capable of sweeping weakened teams if necessary. After one Dragon Dance, Salamence's Outrage will still always OHKO offensive Mewtwo, minimum HP Kyogre, Shaymin-S and Darkrai. Salamence's boosted Outrage will also always OHKO max HP Kyogre after it takes Stealth Rock damage. Note that it is best to Dragon Dance when your opponent's team is already weakened, as Salamence's Outrage isn't as powerful as it is on the pure Dragon Dance Salamence. Because of this, Dragon Dance's main purpose is to allow Salamence to smash through weakened teams, not to focus on sweeping right away.</p>

<p>When using this Salamence, the best Rayquaza to use with it is Swords Dance Rayquaza. This is because Salamence can defeat slower Lugia and defensive Groudon if they switch into Draco Meteor. When either of these Pokémon are eliminated, Swords Dance Rayquaza will have a much easier time sweeping. Dragon Dance Rayquaza will also appreciate Salamence's ability to remove defensive Groudon from play.</p>

<p>This Salamence set will have serious issues with Timid Lugia and Heatran. Timid Lugia will not be OHKOed by any of Salamence's attacks and can then outspeed and OHKO Salamence with Ice Beam. Heatran resists this Salamence's entire moveset and can then deal a lot of damage with Dragon Pulse or Roar Salamence away. Kyogre makes a very good teammate for Salamence in this case, as it can not only counter Heatran in most cases (as long as it avoids Toxic or Explosion), but can also crush Lugia with Thunder. Be warned though, the rain will make Salamence's Fire Blast weaker. Wobbuffet is, once again, a helpful partner for its ability to help Salamence set up; if Wobbuffet has Tickle, it can be paired with a user of Pursuit to defeat Lugia. Like the last set, Mewtwo and Darkrai can help defeat Lugia by setting up on it with Taunt and Dark Void respectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Salamence has access to one move that sets it apart from Rayquaza: Roost. Roost can be used on a mixed Salamence set to restore its health on Pokémon it may force out, or on Pokémon who do little harm to it (such as Forretress without Explosion or Skarmory). This can be especially useful against stall teams, who sometimes rely on Stealth Rock damage to wear down Salamence. There are two main issues with Roost though. First of all, Roost can be hard to find time to use, as Salamence must often predict a switch to use it. Secondly, Roost does not pair well with Outrage. When Salamence uses Outrage, it will often be revenge killed before it can find time to use Roost. It's possible to use Brick Break over Outrage for this purpose (to 2HKO Blissey), but this leaves Salamence walled by Ho-Oh.</p>

<p>Salamence has several alternative attacks at its disposal. Stone Edge can be a good option on Dragon Dance Salamence, as a +1 Stone Edge OHKOes Timid Lugia around 87% of the time after it takes Stealth Rock damage and Leftovers recovery. Dragon Claw can be used on the Dragon Dance set to OHKO most Dragon-types without being force to lock Salamence into Outrage. If using Dragon Claw over Fire Blast or Flamethrower, Magnezone or Magneton support is recommended for eliminating most Steel-types. In a similar manner, Crunch can be used to OHKO Mewtwo after a Dragon Dance. Hydro Pump can be used on mixed Salamence to 2HKO Skarmory, Forretress, Scizor and Metagross in the rain if you must have Kyogre on your team. Hydro Pump will also OHKO Heatran in the rain.</p>

<p>If your team has problems with stall, Dragon Fang can be a reasonable option on mixed Salamence, though it will lose out on a few KOs. Both Yache Berry and Haban Berry are reasonable items to use on Salamence, but Rayquaza is often better off using them, as Salamence prefers the added power of Life Orb.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Salamence's counters are extremely similar to Rayquaza's. In other words, there aren't actually many Salamence counters at all! Salamence only has two hard counters in Ubers. Cresselia is able to survive any of Salamence's attacks, and can then OHKO Salamence with Ice Beam after Stealth Rock. Timid Lugia works in a similar fashion, but it must avoid Stone Edge after a boost. Bold Lugia can defeat Dragon Dance Salamence, but it has a chance of being defeated by mixed Salamence after it takes Stealth Rock damage.</p>

<p>Generally, the best way to deal with Salamence is to force it to use Outrage, and then switch to a Steel-type Pokémon. Scizor is one of the best choices for this, as it can 2HKO Salamence with a Choice Band-boosted Bullet Punch. Metagross and Jirachi are also reasonable choices due to Ice Punch. Skarmory is particularly notable because it will usually wall Salamence in the rainy weather. Although not a Steel-type, defensive Groudon is notable for its ability to survive a +1 Outrage from Salamence. Groudon can then choose to hit it with Stone Edge or cripple it with Thunder Wave.</p>

<p>Like Rayquaza, it's often easier to revenge kill Salamence than try and counter it. Choice Scarf Garchomp is a particularly good choice, as it outspeeds Salamence even after it uses a Dragon Dance and will OHKO Salamence with Outrage. In a similar manner, Choice Scarf users with a base Speed of over 100 and an Ice-type attack are good revenge killers. Good examples of this are Mewtwo, Darkrai, Shaymin-S and Gengar. Weavile and Mamoswine are notable for their ability to revenge kill Salamence without the use of Choice Scarf, thanks to their STAB Ice Shard.</p>