[Overview]

<p>When looking at Uxie, it may seem like a poor choice in the Uber metagame, due to its walling capabilities being outclassed by Lugia and Cresselia. However, Uxie has access to one move that makes it a great Pokémon in the Uber metagame; Memento. Uxie is easily the most bulky user of Memento in the game, meaning that Uxie is certainly not outclassed by the other user of Memento in Ubers, Latios. Overall, never underestimate Uxie in Ubers, as its nearly unrivaled use of Memento can easily set up a deadly sweeper, or set off a nearly unstoppable Baton Pass Mew team!</p>

[SET]
name: Memento
move 1: Light Screen
move 2: Reflect
move 3: Memento
move 4: U-turn / Yawn / Stealth Rock
item: Light Clay
nature: Careful / Impish / Jolly
evs: 252 HP / 252 SpD / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Uxie may seem like a silly choice for a slot on an Uber team, but Uxie has access to one key move that makes it very viable: Memento. Uxie has several key advantages over the most common user of Memento in Ubers, Latios. Uxie's defenses are far superior to Latios's defenses, meaning that Uxie will often have an easier time setting up. Unlike Latios, Uxie is also neutral to the many Dragon-type attacks of the Uber metagame, meaning that common Choice Scarfed Dragon-types such as Garchomp, Dialga, and Palkia will not be able to stop Uxie's setup like they could with Latios. Additionally, Uxie's access to Memento sets it apart from Mewtwo and Bronzong, allowing Pokémon such as Groudon and Mew to set up on the weakened Pokémon. Memento also allows Uxie to take advantage of Brick Break Scizor, as Brick Break will not shatter Uxie's screens the turn it sacrifices itself. With good defenses, Light Screen and Reflect (both lasting 8 turns due to Light Clay), and Memento, Uxie is very capable of helping a teammate set up a sweep.</p>

<p>The last move slot is often best occupied by U-turn for numerous reasons. U-turn allows Uxie to escape from Taunt users, such as Mewtwo and Tyranitar, that attempt to stop its set up, in addition to scouting out the opponent's reaction to Uxie. U-turn will also allow Uxie to escape from Wobbuffet without sacrificing itself. Yawn is another good option, as its ability to scare opponents into switching or induce sleep the following turn can give Uxie a free turn to set up. Finally, Uxie is capable of setting up Stealth Rock if needed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Deciding Uxie's nature is crucial, as it determines what Pokémon Uxie can set up on. A Careful nature with max HP and Special Defense will ensure that several extremely powerful special attackers will be unable to switch in and stop Uxie's set up after a use of Light Screen. For example, not even a Timid Choice Specs Palkia will be able to 2HKO a Careful Uxie with a rain boosted, STAB Surf under a Light Screen. With an Impish nature and max HP and Defense, Uxie is more capable of setting up on several prominent physical attackers. For example, an Impish Uxie will never be 3HKOed by a Jolly Choice Scarf Garchomp's Dragon Claw, meaning that Uxie can easily set up on it. An Impish nature will also allow Uxie to have an easier time setting up on Groudon, who will be unable to 2HKO Uxie with even an Adamant Choice Banded Stone Edge after Uxie takes Stealth Rock damage. Finally, using Jolly with max HP and max Speed is very viable due to Uxie's 95 base Speed allowing it to outspeed and set up on prominent, base 90 Speed Pokémon such as Kyogre, Groudon, and Dialga. A Jolly Uxie has the bonus of possibly blocking Modest Choice Specs Kyogre's chances of KOing Uxie if it uses Light Screen as Kyogre switches in, as a full powered Water Spout will only have around a 7% chance of OHKOing a Light Screened Uxie after it takes Stealth Rock damage.</p>

<p>In order to use Uxie to its fullest potential, it's best to lure out the Pokémon it easily sets up on. Defensive Pokémon who lack phazing moves (such as Blissey, Forretress, and some Giratina) have almost no chance of stopping Uxie. Thanks to Levitate, Uxie can switch into Groudon's Earthquakes, and set up as most Groudon struggle to defeat Uxie (especially when Uxie is Impish or facing defensive Groudon). Uxie can also use Levitate to set up on any Choiced Garchomp that locks itself into Earthquake and can even set up on a Choice Scarf Garchomp's Dragon Claw if Uxie is using an Impish nature. There are several Pokémon who, while Uxie can not directly switch into, can set up on if Uxie is able to find a way to switch into these Pokémon unharmed. For example: Latias, Choice Scarf Dialga, and Choice Scarf Palkia can be set up on by Uxie if it gets in on them unharmed. Scizor makes an excellent partner with Uxie, because it will often attract Pokémon such as Forretress, Giratina, Choice Scarf Palkia (expecting a Bullet Punch) and Groudon to takes its attacks. Scizor can use U-turn as these threats switch in, allowing Uxie to easily set up on them. Jolly Uxie works particularly well with Scizor, because Scizor will also attract base 90 Speed Ubers such as Kyogre, meaning that Uxie can come in via Scizor's U-turn, and set up on them due to Uxie's superior Speed. Dialga will often lure in Groudon and Garchomp after a kill, giving Uxie the perfect opportunity to switch into an Earthquake, and start setting up (unless Garchomp has a Life Orb). Other Steel-types such as Metagross and Jirachi (who has access to U-turn) will also attract Forretress, Giratina, and Ground-type attacks for Uxie to switch in on. Deoxys-A makes a great lead for teams featuring Uxie. This is because after Deoxys-A either defeats or forces the opponents lead to switch, the opponent will sometimes attempt to deal with Deoxys-A by revenge killing it with common users of Choice Scarf such as Dialga and Palkia, thus giving Uxie the free time to set up after Deoxys-A is KOed. Although risky, you can use the strategy of double switching to put Uxie in a favorable situation. For example, if you are using Darkrai, you can predict the switch to Choice Scarf Palkia or Choice Scarf Dialga, and switch in Uxie, thus allowing Uxie to set up on either of them.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Uxie has a wide variety of other viable options for its last move slot. Ice Punch can be used to 2HKO Rayquaza and Garchomp, and also have around a 2% chance of OHKOing Shaymin-S after Stealth Rock damage. Fire Punch can be used to 2HKO both Forretress and Scizor in the sun if needed. Uxie has the option of using Grass Knot to 3HKO Groudon in case it is a serious problem for the rest of the team. Knock Off is a useful support move that can often remove attack boosting items from foes such as Garchomp, allowing Uxie to have an easier time setting up Reflect and Light Screen. Thunder Wave is a great option on Uxie, because it will often cripple common Uxie switch-ins such as Darkrai, Mewtwo, and Mew. Heal Bell can be a useful move to remove status from your team. Although risky, Uxie can use Magic Coat to possibly put Darkrai to sleep with its own Dark Void. Finally, Uxie is a very capable user of Trick Room.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Like most users of Memento, Uxie can be difficult to stop. Generally, the best counter to Uxie in Ubers is any faster user of Taunt. Mewtwo and Mew are particularly good users of Taunt. Darkrai not only has access to Taunt to shut down Uxie, but can also put Uxie to sleep with Dark Void. If Uxie does not invest in enough Speed, Jolly Tyranitar will also be able to stop it cold with Taunt. Metagross not only has access to Brick Break to destroy Uxie's Reflect and Light Screen, but also has the ability, Clear Body, which means that Metagross is not affected by Memento.</p>