[Overview]

<p>Dewgong has never been a common sight in the UU metagame. It's severely outclassed by its cousin Walrein, in terms of both overall stats and ability. Dewgong's defensive stats should by no means be dismissed, however, and its unique ability, Hydration, distinguishes it from its Water- and Ice-type brethren. Dewgong's part Ice typing is quite a mixed blessing. STAB Ice-type moves are always welcome on any team, hitting many common Pokemon super effectively. Defensively, however, Dewgong's Ice typing does it no favors. Stealth Rock hinders Dewgong's ability to tank, as taking 25% damage each time it switches in will wear it down very quickly. Even with these drawbacks taken into consideration, Dewgong can still act as a decent tank in UU play, with handy resistances to the omnipresent Ice- and Water-type attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: Rain Dance
move 1: Rain Dance
move 2: Surf
move 3: Ice Beam / Toxic
move 4: Rest
item: Damp Rock / Leftovers
ability: Hydration
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 162 SpA / 96 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is based around utilizing Dewgong's ability, Hydration. After Rain Dance is set up, Rest becomes a means of recovery that is both instantaneous and reliable. STAB Surf in the rain will hit any Pokemon that does not resist it for significant damage. Ice Beam is Dewgong's secondary STAB move, which, when paired with Surf, provides excellent all-around coverage. Toxic is a useful option to consider, depending on the rest of your team; it can cripple bulky walls such as Milotic and Chansey, forcing them to either switch out or die, which can be an effective way to rack up damage if entry hazards are present.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>96 Speed EVs guarantee that Dewgong will outspeed notable threats such as max Speed Aggron and Rock Polish Torterra before the boost. 252 HP EVs give Dewgong as much bulk as possible, while the remaining EVs are dumped into Special Attack to give Dewgong some much needed offensive firepower. Unfortunately, since there aren't any Pokemon in the UU metagame that can set up permanent rain, Dewgong is left to perform that task for itself. Damp Rock should always be Dewgong's primary item choice, as it grants three very much appreciated additional turns of rain. However, if you have other Pokemon to set up rain on the team, then Leftovers is a good alternative.</p>

<p>Since Dewgong is doubling as a tank and Rain Dance supporting Pokemon, the best teammates are those that can really put the rain to use. Thanks to Dewgong's bulk, it can take a hit or two, set up rain, and let teammates such as Kabutops and Ludicolo wreak havoc. Other teammates to consider are those with weaknesses to Fire-type attacks that appreciate the rain to reduce that damage, such as Venusaur and Leafeon. Because of Dewgong's Ice typing, it picks up weaknesses to Rock- and Fighting-type attacks that teammates will have to address. Donphan makes a great partner because it can take Rock- and Electric-type attacks with ease, and it has massive physical bulk to take a few hits from powerful Fighting-type Pokemon if absolutely necessary. For what it's worth, Donphan can also set up Stealth Rock for Dewgong's team. Uxie also makes a good partner because it can set up Stealth Rock, like Donphan, and because it threatens Fighting-type Pokemon with STAB Psychic and can cripple other things with Thunder Wave.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Dewgong can also use a physically based set with Waterfall and Avalanche instead of Surf and Ice Beam; if you decide to use this set, the EVs and nature should be changed accordingly. Ice Shard and Aqua Jet both get STAB, but still do a pitiful amount of damage, even against Pokemon that are weak to them. Blizzard is a viable option if you are using Dewgong in a hail based team, as the additional Base Power is greatly welcomed. Signal Beam is the only other attacking option available for Dewgong besides Hidden Power, but is redundant because Ice Beam offers pretty much the same type coverage while hitting Dark- and Psychic-types almost as hard thanks to STAB. Dewgong can try phazing with Perish Song, but this is usually better left to more defensive Pokemon like Lapras. An interesting alternative is Encore, which can force switches or create openings for fellow sweepers, allowing them to set up on an opposing Pokemon that is locked into a nonthreatening move. Thick Fat can replace Hydration outside of rain, but in that case you may as well use a better Water-type like Milotic or Blastoise over Dewgong.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>With its poor offensive stats, Dewgong doesn't pose much of threat to most of the metagame. Bulky Water-type Pokemon such as Milotic and Blastoise have nothing to fear outside of Toxic against non-Rest variants. Clefable is immune to status and boasts great Special Defense, making it an ideal counter; it is able to inflict status on, set up on, or Encore Dewgong. Poliwrath can easily switch in on any move not named Toxic, set up a Substitute, and proceed to pummel Dewgong with STAB Focus Punch. Bulky Pokemon in general that are either immune to Toxic or can remove status afflictions can easily set up on Dewgong. Keeping Stealth Rock consistently up will limit how freely Dewgong can switch in and out, hindering its performance.</p>