[Overview]

<p>Donphan is one of the more reliable Pokémon to consider for any balanced team in UU because of its ability to Spin away entry hazards. The common presence of Stealth Rock and even Spikes in UU makes Donphan ever more popular. Another interesting thing to note about Donphan is its ability to beat just about every Ghost-type you are likely to encounter in UU, ranging from Spiritomb to Rotom. However, the lack of recovery really does hamper Donphan's ability to tank hits repeatedly, and outside of Stealth Rock and Rapid Spin, Donphan has very few support moves to take advantage of. The sturdy elephant is not the most spectacular Pokémon around, but he is a solid and reliable supporter who can hit hard when the need arises.</p>

[SET]
name: Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Assurance
move 4: Stealth Rock / Ice Shard / Stone Edge
item: Leftovers
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Donphan is one of the few viable Spinners in UU, with several key traits that make using it advantageous over using Hitmontop and Claydol, such as the monstrous base 120 Attack and Defense stats and the ability to hurt Ghost-types with either Earthquake or Assurance. Donphan, being so physically defensive, also acts as a counter to some of the major physical threats in the metagame, such as Swords Dance Drapion, Swords Dance Toxicroak, and Swords Dance Scyther (assuming you are running either Ice Shard or Stone Edge in the fourth moveslot).</p>

<p>This set revolves around Rapid Spin, which removes any entry hazards your opponent might have laid down during the match, in particular Spikes and Stealth Rock. Earthquake is the main STAB move of choice, as even incoming Spiritomb (a common switch-in to this set) is heftily damaged by it, possibly being 2HKOed after Stealth Rock damage. Assurance prevents Levitating Ghost-types, namely Rotom and Mismagius, from coming in freely, as even the most defensive of Rotom and Mismagius will lose at least 75% of their health from a 100 Base Power Assurance, with Stealth Rock factored in. Finally, the last moveslot is up to preference. Stealth Rock is a useful support option on Donphan, as it gets many opportunities to switch in and cause further trouble for the opponent. Ice Shard allows Donphan to hit Flying-types for a decent amount of damage and allows you to pick off weakened Dragon Dance Altaria and Rock Polish Torterra. Despite Stone Edge's higher Base Power, its mediocre accuracy makes it slightly inferior to Ice Shard.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs for this set are rather straightforward. Maximum Attack is used on Donphan as it needs the ability to immediately threaten Ghost-types who attempt to switch in to block Rapid Spin, while max HP maximizes its overall bulk. The old standard of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 Spe can also be run on this set, along with the possible support options of Roar, Rest, or Knock Off, but the lower physical Defense of Pokémon in UU makes maxing out Attack a better option, as Donphan now has the chance of threatening counters instead of simply stalling them out.</p>

<p>Donphan is best paired with teammates that can switch into the most common attacking types aimed at Donphan, such as Water, Ice, and Grass. Milotic is a useful partner that can switch into Water- and Ice-type attacks, and its access to recovery along with largely superior defenses allows Milotic to also counter some other special attackers that can give Donphan trouble, such as Life Orb Blaziken and Calm Mind Mismagius; granted, they are unlikely to switch into Donphan to begin with. Grass-type attacks are easily covered by Scyther and Moltres, who both pack a 4x resistance. Although both are dangerously weak to Stealth Rock, pairing either Scyther or Moltres with Donphan is extremely beneficial because of Donphan's ability to Spin away Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>If you want to use Donphan on a more defensive team, there are several noteworthy teammates you can consider for Donphan. Chansey is a useful partner for Donphan because it can switch into the special attacks that threaten Donphan and can heal Donphan with Wish, who otherwise lacks recovery of its own. Venusaur has the benefit of carrying resistances to the Grass- and Water-type attacks normally directed at Donphan and can absorb Toxic Spikes, the entry hazard that Donphan has most trouble with.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Assurance
move 3: Stone Edge / Ice Shard
move 4: Rapid Spin / Ice Shard
item: Choice Band
nature: Adamant
evs: 172 HP / 252 Atk / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Donphan is normally seen as a defensive tank that focuses on taking hits, this set instead focuses on Donphan's base 120 Attack stat and its great STAB move in Earthquake. Choice Band provides Donphan with an Attack stat of 558, which is simply overwhelming against some of the previous set's counters. For example, Spiritomb is always outsped and 2HKOed by Earthquake, while Rotom and Mismagius are always OHKOed by a 100 Base Power Assurance after Stealth Rock damage. Simply put, coupled with an already great physical Defense and an even higher Attack (with Choice Band equipped), Donphan is capable of putting large holes in the opponent's team with little effort.</p>

<p>Earthquake is Donphan's primary attacking option, and it puts a serious hurt on anything that doesn't resist or is not immune to it. Assurance is needed to hit Levitating Ghost-types like Rotom and Mismagius, both of whom enjoy switching into Donphan to block any attempts to Rapid Spin and setting up themselves. The third moveslot gives Donphan an option to hit Flying-types who are immune to Earthquake. Stone Edge has a much higher Base Power than Ice Shard, making it the preferred option, despite the shaky accuracy; nevertheless, Ice Shard is a useful option for its 100% accuracy and ability to prevent Torterra from walling you with ease. For the last moveslot, Rapid Spin is quite a useful option for eliminating the opponent's entry hazards, which is capitalized by this set's ability to beat any Ghost-type one-on-one. If your team does not have much of an issue with entry hazards, then Ice Shard can be used over Rapid Spin as well.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs maximize Donphan's offensive capabilities. 84 Speed EVs allow Donphan to outspeed base 60s, such as Clefable and Weezing, that do not invest in Speed, as well as most Chansey, Registeel, and Azumarill. Max Attack is obvious, while the rest of the EVs are dumped into HP to cushion Donphan's reasonable bulk.</p>

<p>This set's teammates should handle Flying-types, Torterra, and Milotic, all of which can switch into Donphan's Earthquake with impunity. Registeel counters most of the Flying-types of UU and can set up Stealth Rock to cripple the ones it doesn't. It also provides support with Thunder Wave to allow Donphan to outspeed and 2HKO Pokemon it normally couldn't, though Earthquake will no longer 2HKO Milotic with Marvel Scale activated. Venusaur is a good teammate for countering Milotic if your team does not have paralysis support, as it can switch into Milotic's Water-type attacks with ease and threaten it with a STAB Leaf Storm or Power Whip or set up a Swords Dance as Milotic deals minimal damage. Spikes, in particular, is a very useful strategy since Donphan is great at forcing switches, and can be set up easily by Qwilfish or Omastar. Torterra is a bit trickier to handle, as not many Pokémon can switch into Torterra without the risk of getting outsped after a Rock Polish; however, having a Pokémon who can bypass Torterra's Speed with priority, such as Hitmontop, or simply having a revenge killer, such as Choice Scarf Rotom with Hidden Power Ice, is often the best response to Torterra. Defensive versions are easier to handle since you don't have to worry about taking too much damage from either Earthquake / Wood Hammer and getting outsped, but it's often best if you can just force Torterra to switch out by switching in a Pokémon likely to carry an Ice-type move. Moltres is an overall good counter to Torterra, provided it doesn't carry a Rock-type move, and can even benefit from Donphan's ability to Spin away Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>Offensively, many of the Pokémon who paired well with the previous set still pair well with the Choice Band set. Moltres is one of the best partners to this set, as it can usually sweep through a team that has been weakened by Donphan's Earthquakes and hopeful entry hazard support. As mentioned many times before, Donphan even has the ability to Spin away Stealth Rock, meaning Moltres has little reason to worry about taking any damage as it switches in. Mismagius carrying Taunt is also an interesting option for an offensive partner, as with Calm Mind, it also gets multiple opportunities to benefit from the holes in the opponent's team made by Donphan and sweep. For example, Milotic, normally a counter to Mismagius, will often be weakened enough by Donphan's Earthquake to where it can no longer switch in and Haze away Mismagius's stat boosts.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Donphan does not have many competitively viable options outside of what has already been mentioned. A combination of Rest + Sleep Talk can be utilized if your team is in essential need of a defensive tank that is guaranteed to last, but the mediocre type coverage between Earthquake and either Assurance and Stone Edge is not enough in consideration of the amount of Pokémon who can potentially set up on Donphan while asleep. Donphan can run Toxic in the fourth moveslot of either of the two sets, but Toxic is largely unneeded when Donphan can simply eliminate common switch-ins with Earthquake or Assurance. A Rock Polish set can be considered, but Donphan lacks the Speed and type coverage to pull off a sweep most of the time. Body Slam can be used to paralyze opponents if you're lucky, but the lack of power is noticeable. Poison Jab hits Tangrowth super effectively, but Tangrowth's massive Defense stat makes it a worthless option. Counter can nab a surprise kill against physical attackers like Altaria. Endeavor and Flail are gimmicky options at best.</p>

<p>On the Rapid Spin set, transferring 80 EVs from HP to Speed will enable Donphan to outpace minimum Speed base 60 Pokemon, such as Clefable and Weezing. This change can have situational utility; for instance, Donphan can Head Smash a weakened Weezing before being burned by Will-O-Wisp.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Most Water-types are capable of switching into Donphan with ease and threatening it with a STAB Surf. Both Milotic and Slowbro have enough physical Defense to withstand an Earthquake or two, with the former outpacing Donphan. Ludicolo resists Earthquake and can threaten Donphan with either of its STAB moves. Azumarill can survive one Earthquake and deal heavy damage with boosted Waterfalls. Even Blastoise can come in a few times and KO Donphan with Surf, although the lack of recovery hurts. Poliwrath can also switch into Earthquake with little trouble and deal huge damage with Waterfall in return.</p>

<p>Flying-types are capable of switching into Donphan's Earthquake with impunity and threaten Donphan with boosted attacks, provided Donphan does not have Stone Edge or Ice Shard in the fourth moveslot. Moltres can scorch Donphan with a Life Orb-boosted Fire Blast, and Swellow can easily wear down Donphan with a Guts-boosted, STAB Facade, while Altaria can set up on Donphan with Dragon Dance and proceed to deal heavy damage with Outrage.</p>

<p>Torterra and Tangrowth can switch into any of Donphan's sets with ease due to their mighty physical Defense and KO with a super effective Grass-type attack or stall out Donphan with Leech Seed. Venusaur, while it doesn't resist Earthquake, can switch in and KO Donphan with Leaf Storm, set up Swords Dance, or put something to sleep with Sleep Powder.</p>

<p>Outside of Torterra and Tangrowth, Weezing is the most reliable counter to Donphan, as its high Defense and immunity to Earthquake means that Donphan will hardly be able to land a scratch. Will-O-Wisp also shuts down Donphan completely, further nullifying its attempts to weaken you down. With some EV investment in Special Attack, Weezing can even 3HKO Donphan with Flamethrower or Fire Blast.</p>

<p>In general, a reliable (special) Grass-, Ice-, or Water-type will do a lot of damage to Donphan, so the best counters have such a move as well as a high defensive ability to take Earthquakes / Assurances.</p>