[Overview]

<p>Granbull is a victim of circumstance; that circumstance being the existence of Ursaring. Ursaring outclasses Granbull in almost every way, sporting higher Attack and Speed stats, access to both Guts and Quick Feet, and to top it all off, a very useful boosting move in Swords Dance. While this in no way makes Granbull a bad Pokemon, it does make it so Granbull will almost never see the light of competitive play. However, it should be made clear that Granbull is every bit as threatening as Ursaring, thanks to its monster Attack, STAB Facade, and great movepool. If you're planning on using Granbull, be sure to make use of its perks over Ursaring, namely its access to Intimidate, Heal Bell, and Thunder Wave. Or, simply use Granbull because it's adorable. Seriously, who couldn't love a face like that?</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Thunder Wave / Toxic
move 2: Heal Bell
move 3: Return / Body Slam
move 4: Crunch / Earthquake
item: Leftovers
ability: Intimidate
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 212 Def / 44 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is pretty unique to Granbull, and is something Ursaring could never hope to accomplish. The main goal behind this set is to spread either paralysis or poison, and also to be a cleric to the rest of the team with Heal Bell. The fantastic thing about using Granbull as your supporter is that its Attack is actually so high it can threaten opponents with its auxiliary attacks, unlike its fellow Normal-types, such as Chansey, Clefable, and Miltank. Return and Crunch together provide decent neutral coverage, only missing out on Steel-types. Body Slam can be used over Return for the chance to paralyze opposing Ground-types, such as Rhyperior, Dugtrio, and Donphan. The power difference isn't much of an issue, considering there is no Attack investment on this set; however, Return's slightly higher damage output can be helpful when trying to eliminate crippled Pokemon, such as Moltres and Venusaur. Finally, Earthquake can be used over Crunch in the last slot to get a super effective hit on Steel-types, particularly Aggron and Registeel. However, Granbull will then be unable to damage Levitating Ghost-types, and they would be free to set up a Substitute and then do as they please in Granbull's face.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are designed to take advantage of Granbull's decent physical bulk when combined with Intimidate. The Speed EVs allow Granbull to outspeed minimum base 50s, such as Chansey and Registeel. An alternative spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD with a Sassy nature can be used, but Granbull excels in physical defense, and its Special Defense is lackluster even with investment. Low Kick can be used in the last slot, as it damages Registeel and Rhyperior more than Earthquake and is nice for hitting opposing Normal-types such as Kangaskhan for super effective damage; however, Earthquake is still better for specific opponents such as Omastar, Arcanine, and Spiritomb. In the end, it really just comes down to personal preference.</p>

<p>When fitting Granbull onto a team, you should include teammates that can take advantage of the paralysis and cleric support that Granbull provides. Rhyperior is an excellent example of such a Pokemon, as with a majority of the opposing team paralyzed, Rhyperior can easily set up a Substitute and begin wrecking the opposing team. As a bonus, Granbull's Heal Bell is the perfect remedy for one of SubPerior's biggest downfalls, Toxic. As a Normal-type, Granbull has a single weakness to Fighting-type attacks, so including teammates to absorb them is highly recommended. Ghost-types, such as Mismagius and Spiritomb, are the most pertinent answer and they also benefit from Granbull's paralysis and cleric support. Granbull lacks any form of recovery outside of Rest, which is a problem as Granbull is then limited in the number of times it can switch in to absorb physical attacks and provide support, so including Wish support to keep Granbull healthy is another good tactic. Xatu is an interesting teammate to provide Wish support as it is 4x resistant to Fighting-type attacks, and in return Granbull can freely switch into any Ghost-type attacks aimed at Xatu.</p>

<p>While Granbull is not the best physical wall in existence, it is a hard stop to a unique array of physical attackers in UU. Arcanine, Dragon Dance Feraligatr, Scyther, and Kangaskhan lacking Hammer Arm are all stopped cold and crippled by Granbull (assuming Granbull is switching into them with Intimidate). Teammates who can capitalize on the insurance from Granbull against these Pokemon should definitely be considered. Houndoom is a good example, as any sweep it may attempt is usually stopped cold by the aforementioned Pokemon. Just be extra sure to pack a Ghost-type to absorb any opposing STAB Fighting-type attacks if pairing these two together.</p> 

[SET]
name: Quick Feet
move 1: Protect
move 2: Facade
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Close Combat / Low Kick
item: Toxic Orb
ability: Quick Feet
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>A monster Attack stat, STAB boosted Facade when inflicted by a status condition, and 310 Speed (enough to outpace neutral-natured base 105 Speed Pokemon such as Mismagius) with a Jolly nature and Quick Feet activated, combine to make Granbull quite the menacing presence in UU. While Ursaring directly outclasses Granbull with the same exact set, it doesn't prevent Granbull from causing just as much mayhem. If you're gutsy enough, you could even use both Normal-types for a "Double Dragon"-style strategy, where one of the sweepers opens a hole in the opponent's team and the other finishes it off. Protect allows Granbull to activate its Toxic Orb scot-free and to scout the opponent's next move. STAB Facade is Granbull's main weapon, and even without any Attack boosts, it'll be putting the hurt on a lot of the UU metagame. Crunch crushes Rotom and Mismagius, and Close Combat breaks down Rock- and Steel-types, such as Registeel and Rhyperior. Low Kick is actually a stronger option for Registeel and Rhyperior and comes with the added benefit of not lowering Granbull's defenses; however, Granbull then loses the ability to blast straight through Normal-types, and it's a weaker attack for the lighter-set UU metagame as a whole.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature is highly recommended because it allows Granbull to outspeed neutral-natured base 105s, most notably Mismagius, and crush them. An Adamant nature can be used for a little extra power, but Granbull's Attack is already good even with Jolly. Toxic Orb is the recommended item as it reliably inflicts the toxic poison condition on Granbull and boosts its Speed with no other side effects besides the increasing loss in health. Flame Orb cannot be used because, unlike Guts, Quick Feet doesn't negate the Attack drop from a burn. It's important to note that, should the need arise, Granbull can switch into a paralyzing move, such as Thunder Wave, and still get the Speed boost from Quick Feet; unfortunately, the chance to become fully paralyzed still exists, so this isn't recommended. Granbull can also use Life Orb and try to switch into status attacks to activate Quick Feet; however, this strategy is very unreliable, and if Granbull fails to switch into a status move, it's left with just an unboosted Facade for a STAB attack.</p> 

<p>Granbull is capable of outpacing a majority of the UU tier, but there are still a few threats that it needs some protection against. Registeel makes a great teammate as it can easily switch into Swellow, Sceptile, and Alakazam that lack Focus Blast, all of whom are faster than Granbull after Quick Feet, and either eliminate them or paralyze them with Thunder Wave. Granbull can beat Milotic with boosted Facade after Stealth Rock damage, but is unable to defeat a myriad of other physical walls, such as Tangrowth, Leafeon, Uxie, and Slowbro. Venusaur therefore makes a good teammate, as it can blast the former two into oblivion with Sludge Bomb and defeat Milotic with Leaf Storm. Absol is also worthy of consideration, as it can beat the latter two with a boosted Night Slash. Granbull is actually capable of 2HKOing the aforementioned walls if it runs Bulk Up in place of Crunch. If using Bulk Up, Low Kick should be used in place of Close Combat so that the Defense boosts can amount to something and protect Granbull from the ubiquitous priority attacks in UU.</p> 

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Return
move 2: Crunch
move 3: Close Combat
move 4: Ice Punch / Stone Edge
item: Choice Band
ability: Intimidate / Quick Feet
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 132 HP / 252 Atk / 124 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Granbull is more than capable of running a bread-and-butter Choice Band set, thanks to its massive base 120 Attack stat. The main idea is to switch in comfortably on a weak physical attack with Granbull's respectable bulk, and then fire off the appropriate move. Return is for reliable STAB, Crunch demolishes any Ghost- and Psychic-types, and Close Combat blasts away any Rock- and Steel-types that stand in Granbull's way. The last slot is up to personal preference; Ice Punch nails Altaria and Torterra, while Stone Edge slices Altaria and Moltres.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs allow Granbull to outspeed minimum Speed Weezing and Clefable, as well as other slower walls, such as Donphan, Tangrowth, Omastar, Registeel, and Chansey. An alternative spread of 252 Atk / 4 Def / 252 Spe and a Jolly nature can be used if you decide to run Quick Feet over Intimidate. However, Intimidate is the recommended nature as Granbull makes a much more effective bulky Choice Bander. Earthquake can be used in the last slot, but Electric-types are extremely uncommon in UU, and Granbull will get much more mileage out of Ice Punch or Stone Edge.</p>

<p>Ghost-types, such as Rotom and Dusclops, are fantastic teammates to pair with Granbull as they can switch into Fighting-type moves aimed at it for free and proceed to wreak havoc on the opposing team. Even with a Choice Band, Granbull can never hope to break through Tangrowth and Weezing, so Vensaur and Mesprit make amazing teammates to clear the path for Granbull. Including partners that can take advantage of the holes Choice Band Granbull creates in the opposing team is paramount. With the opponent's walls demolished, set-up sweepers such as Dragon Dance Feraligatr and Swords Dance Scyther have a much easier time doing their job.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>As a Normal-type, Granbull's movepool is literally out the wazoo. A Bulk Up set with Intimidate can be run, but Granbull is just too slow and easily countered by Fighting-types. Toxic can replace Thunder Wave on the Support set, but Granbull is a more effective paralysis spreader thanks to its ability to capitalize on the opposing team's loss in Speed. A Trick Room sweeper set with an EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Def, a Brave nature, and 0 Spe IVs can be used, but Granbull has nothing over its competition in Trick Room and Ursaring will almost always be a better candidate.</p>

<p>Charm can be used in conjunction with Intimidate to really cripple any physical attacker brave enough to stay in on Granbull, but it's usually too situational. The Elemental Fangs can be used, but are too weak in comparison to Granbull's other moves. A SubPunch set can be used, but Granbull will almost always be too slow. Superpower and Brick Break are alternative Fighting-type moves to Close Combat and Low Kick, but the latter two are better suited to Granbull's tactics. Payback is a great alternative to Crunch because Granbull will more often than not be slower than the opposition; however, if Granbull does outspeed its opponent, Crunch will be the better option. A RestTalk set is also viable, but, again, Granbull is too slow to use it effectively. Stone Edge and Rock Slide are good options to pair with Earthquake to form the infamous "QuakeEdge" combo, but without STAB on either move, Granbull will be better off using the moves listed. Taunt is a good way to prevent setup sweepers from taking advantage of the support set, but there's simply no room for it. Finally, Granbull has a myriad of special moves, including Fire Blast, Flamethrower, Overheat, Focus Blast, Thunderbolt, and Shadow Ball; however, they can't be used effectively with Granbull's meager Special Attack stat.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Weezing, Tangrowth, and Uxie are never 2HKOed by any of Granbull's unboosted moves, and can either cripple it or simply eliminate it with their STAB moves. Fighting-types, such as Hariyama, Hitmonlee, and Hitmontop, will make quick work of Granbull with their STAB moves. Ghost-types are a hard counter to any Granbull lacking Crunch, and Steel-types block any Granbull lacking Close Combat or Earthquake. Typically, strong special attackers, such as Alakazam, Mismagius, and Venusaur, can easily defeat Granbull by hitting it on its weaker defense stat. However, they are unable to switch into any of Granbull's attacks, and the latter two are defeated by the Quick Feet set.</p>