[Overview]

<p>Oh Ledian... You're as cute as a button, and about as strong as one too. You have some of the worst attacking stats of all fully evolved Pokemon, arguably the worst typing in the game, and abilities that do little to help you. At least your movepool, Special Defense, and Speed are decent, but that's not enough to save you from being in the same laughing stock realm as Luvdisc and Farfetch'd.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Agility
move 2: Swords Dance / Roost
move 3: Baton Pass
move 4: Encore
ability: Early Bird
nature: Jolly
item: Lum Berry / Focus Sash
evs: 152 HP / 104 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Ledian has all the right moves he needs to be a great Baton Passer or even an adequate lead. Encore is the selling point of this set, and allows Ledian to seperate himself from his fellow Bug-type Baton Passers. The main idea when using Ledian is to switch into an attack that poses little to no threat, Encore it, use either Agility or Swords Dance as the opponent switches out, and Baton Pass out to the appropriate teammate. Unfortunately, Ledian's lack of an attacking move on this set means he is utterly dismantled by Taunt; however, Ledian's Attack stat is pitiful and he wouldn't be damaging much anyway. When considering Ledian for a slot on your team, it is important to realize that he is only improving your team of five with Agility and Swords Dance boosts—like an accessory—and that your team should be able to function without Ledian.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs maximize Ledian's surprisingly good special bulk while giving him max Speed to ensure he outspeeds the omnipresent base 80s that riddle the UU metagame. When using Ledian, the best attacks for him to switch in on are non-damaging moves or Grass-, Fighting-, and Ground-type attacks. Ledian should then proceed to Encore the move, use Agility or Swords Dance as the opposing Pokemon switches out, and Baton Pass to the appropriate teammate when the opponent's switch-in is revealed. All of this switching can quickly deplete Ledian's health, especially if Stealth Rock is in play, so Roost can be used in place of Swords Dance to increase Ledian's longevity.</p>

<p>If considering Ledian for the lead position, it is important to remember that he will be forced out immediately by half of the most commonly used leads in the metagame. Examples of leads that immediately force out Ledian are: Ambipom, Alakazam, Moltres, Arcanine, Snover, and any Pokemon with Taunt. Losing against all of these leads may seem overwhelming, but Ledian is perfectly capable of setting up on the half not mentioned. Against any other lead, the best idea is to Agility on turn one. This way, Ledian is able to outspeed the other lead and Encore whatever they used on the first turn. After Ledian has successfully Encored their first move, he is free to use Swords Dance as they switch out. After they have revealed their switch-in, Ledian can then Baton Pass to the appropriate teammate. The item choice in the lead position can vary. Lum Berry is the most useful as it protects Ledian from one turn of status, allowing him to pass at least the Agility he used on the first turn to the appropriate teammate. Focus Sash can be used to protect Ledian from Stone Edge or Fire Blast from leads such as Pinsir, Moltres, or Nidoking, but these leads are rare, so most times Lum Berry will prove more useful.</p>

<p>Because Ledian will be passing Agility and Swords Dance boosts, the best teammates are those that can capitalize on said boosts and cover Ledian's weaknesses. One of the best partners for Ledian is Rhyperior. Rhyperior can easily switch into the Fire-, Rock-, Electric-, and Flying-type attacks that Ledian will encounter, is a great immediate switch-in to Ambipom if using Ledian in the lead position, and really enjoys the boosts Ledian provides. In turn, Ledian can easily switch into the Ground-, Fighting-, Water-, and Grass-type attacks that plague Rhyperior. They both share an Ice-type weakness, but it is an uncommon attacking type in the UU metagame. Other good teammates include those that cannot be phazed out, such as Octillery or Cradily. If using Ledian in the lead position, Pokemon that can switch in immediately into Alakazam or Mismagius, such as Spiritomb or Absol, make good teammates as well. Thanks to Ledian's ability, Early Bird, and the Lum Berry, he can also Agility on the first turn against sleep-inducing leads such as Venomoth or Venusaur, Swords Dance and absorb the sleep the next turn, and have an increased chance of awakening immediately the next turn to Baton Pass to a teammate as the opponent switches out. This strategy is risky, but the payoff is usually greater than the risk involved.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Substitute, Light Screen, and Knock Off round out Ledian's other support options. Substitute is useful to protect Ledian from status and can be used to bring Ledian's health down low enough to activate a pinch berry. Using Substitute and a pinch berry is very risky, however, and usually means Ledian only has one shot to pull off a successful pass. Light Screen can be used in the lead position in place of Swords Dance to give teammates such as Rhyperior or Octillery a much needed boost in Special Defense. Knock Off is always useful to rid a wall, such as Milotic, of Leftovers, or a sweeper, such as Alakazam, of Life Orb. Ledian has moves like Bug Buzz, Aerial Ace, Mach Punch, Double-Edge, and Focus Blast for attacking options, but he is too weak to use them effectively, even with potential boosts from Choice Specs or Swarm.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Anything with Taunt will immediately end Ledian's fun, especially leads like Electrode, Alakazam, and Ambipom. Haze Milotic will also put an immediate stop to Ledian's Baton Passing games and force him to switch to a teammate to eliminate her. Roar and Whirlwind are another big problem for Ledian; however, be warned, as Ledian may be passing to Octillery or Cradily, both of whom are immune to phazing. Any non-resisted physical attack will easily KO Ledian as well.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is Ledian's biggest enemy, stripping him of half of his health and decreasing his survivability. The problem is, in most cases, Ledian will be banking on the opposition to use Stealth Rock on turn one to allow him to Encore it and proceed to safely use Swords Dance or Baton Pass. So, when facing Ledian, the best bet may be to delay setting up Stealth Rock and instead attack Ledian outright to ensure he won't be able to pull off his strategy.</p>