[Overview]

<p>Mothim is another forgotten Bug / Flying-type Pokemon, and for a good reason: he has a crippling 4x weakness to Stealth Rock, making him almost unviable on a competitive team. This, coupled with his paper-thin defenses and several common weaknesses, means that Mothim won't stay alive for very long. He is also slow and easy to revenge kill. It can also be said that Mothim is outclassed by Venomoth, who is faster, takes less damage from Stealth Rock, has access to Sleep Powder, and has a better ability in Tinted Lens. It isn't all bad news for Mothim, however, as he has above-average attacking stats and a good movepool, with moves such as Bug Buzz, Air Slash, and U-turn; additionally, while Mothim is slow, his Speed is decent enough to run an effective Choice Scarf set.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice
move 1: Bug Buzz
move 2: Air Slash
move 3: Hidden Power Ground
move 4: U-turn / Shadow Ball
item: Choice Scarf / Choice Specs
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Mothim's decent Special Attack and, to a lesser extent, his usable Attack stat. Bug Buzz is a very nice STAB move that hit Psychic- and Grass-types such as Slowbro, Uxie, and Leafeon quite hard. Air Slash is Mothim's secondary STAB move, hitting Bug- and Fighting-types for heavy damage. Hidden Power Ground is necessary, as Mothim would otherwise be walled by Registeel and other Steel-types. The last move comes down to personal preference; U-turn is great for scouting, while Shadow Ball is Mothim's best bet against Ghost-types, especially offensive Rotom, who is always OHKOed by Specs Mothim provided that Mothim hits him on the switch, as otherwise Rotom outspeeds and OHKOes Mothim with STAB Thunderbolt.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Timid is the preferred nature, as with the boost from Choice Scarf, Mothim can outspeed Choice Scarf Absol, Sceptile, Alakazam, and Espeon. With Choice Specs, Mothim is still capable of outrunning Absol, Ludicolo, and Poliwrath. Modest is also viable, as it gives Mothim more power. A Naive or a Rash nature can be used to make U-turn stronger. The EV spread maximizes Mothim's Special Attack and Speed, while 4 Special Defense EVs give Mothim 281 HP, which allows him to switch in twice if Stealth Rock is in play. It also forces Porygon2's Download ability to boost his Attack instead of his Special Attack, making him a less powerful threat. Both Choice items are effective; Choice Specs make Mothim a potent Pokemon capable of breaking through some walls, while Choice Scarf allows him to act as a good revenge killer. Life Orb is viable, but Mothim really needs the boost that both Choice items provide.</p>

<p>Rapid Spin support is mandatory to keep Mothim alive. Donphan and Claydol can come in on Rock-type attacks directed at Mothim and use Rapid Spin, clearing the field of any dangerous entry hazards. In addition, Donphan can beat Steel-types that wall Mothim with his powerful STAB Earthquake. Hitmontop is also a very reliable Rapid Spinner thanks to Foresight. Wish support from Pokemon such as Clefable and Chansey is helpful, enabling Mothim to survive much longer in the match.</p>

<p>Lanturn is a great teammate for Mothim, as he can defeat bulky Water-types like Milotic, and his typing and ability will cause problems for Rotom. Mothim can switch into Ground- and Grass-type attacks aimed at Lanturn, while Lanturn can switch into Fire-, Electric-, and Ice-type attacks directed at the moth. Dugtrio is also an excellent partner because he can trap and KO Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon who would otherwise trouble Mothim. Special walls such as Clefable and Chansey completely wall Mothim; for this reason, a strong Fighting-type Pokemon is recommended. Hitmonlee is especially good thanks to his immunity to paralysis, while Blaziken can surprise the opponent with a mixed set, tearing through almost any wall who stands in his way.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Mothim has a few more viable options. A Substitute set aiming to activate Swarm and a pinch Berry can be used, but it is unreliable due to the prevalence of priority in UU. Energy Ball is Mothim's best bet against most bulky Waters such as Lanturn and Milotic, and can OHKO Quagsire, Omastar, Kabutops, and Gastrodon, but the options listed in the set above provide better coverage. Psychic is another option, but it doesn't have impressive coverage in conjunction with Mothim's other attacks; it hits Nidoking and Weezing super effectively, but doesn't have much use outside of that. Mothim can run a physical set, but his physical movepool is limited to Bug Bite, U-turn, Aerial Ace, and Return. Roost can also be used, but with Mothim's pitiful defenses, it's not recommended. Toxic allows Mothim to cripple walls, but he needs all of the type coverage he can get.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Mothim will usually be carrying a Choice item, so good prediction is important to defeat him. Aggron can switch into anything bar Hidden Power Ground; Rock-types such as Rhyperior can switch in on Mothim and set up Rock Polish, but they should be wary of the potential Energy Ball. Rotom can switch in on Mothim with ease, but it must be careful to avoid Shadow Ball, and OHKO him with STAB Thunderbolt. Chansey, Clefable, Regice, Registeel, and Milotic wall Mothim's attacks easily, and most of them can OHKO or 2HKO him back (though Regice and Milotic won't enjoy a potential Toxic). Due to Mothim's poor Speed, strong Choice Scarf users can dispose of him easily, while fast sweepers can also outspeed and KO Mothim if he isn't running Choice Scarf. Mothim's lack of offensive power and bad defenses mean that specially-bulky Pokemon will be able to wall him throughout the entire match. Priority is also problematic for Mothim due to his bad defenses. Finally, Stealth Rock makes Mothim much easier to KO, stripping away half his health upon switching in.</p>