[Overview]

<p>Although she is often overlooked for her offensive male counterpart, Nidoqueen has proven herself to be a reliable member on defensive teams. Her unique Poison / Ground typing gives her useful resistances to Rock-, Fighting-, and Bug-type attacks as well as an immunity to Electric-type attacks. Combine these resistances with very solid 90 / 87 / 85 defenses and an immunity to Toxic, and Nidoqueen will find herself with numerous opportunities to switch in and set up Toxic Spikes and Stealth Rock. However, Nidoqueen lacks the stats to use her expansive offensive movepool effectively, and lacks recovery outside of Rest, so having a teammate to buffer any Water-, Ice-, and Psychic-type attacks aimed at Nidoqueen will be required and will greatly increase her longevity, allowing her to continuously support your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Earth Power
move 2: Stealth Rock
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Toxic Spikes / Roar
item: Leftovers
ability: Poison Point
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to her high Defense and decent typing, Nidoqueen is able to check numerous physical threats. Unlike other physically defensive Ground-types, Nidoqueen has a usable Special Attack stat that allows her to strike physical attackers, such as Aggron and Rhyperior, on their weaker Special Defense stat.</p> 

<p>Nidoqueen's typing grants her resistances to many common UU attacking types, such as Rock, Fighting, and Bug, which enables her to set up Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes with ease. As for her attacking moves, Earth Power allows Nidoqueen to hit Rhyperior and Aggron for super effective damage, while Ice Beam allows her to strike Donphan, Torterra, and Altaria. Bulky Pokemon, such as Milotic and Slowbro, are severely crippled by Toxic Spikes. Roar can be used instead to rack up entry hazard damage, scout your opponent's team, and phaze out any stat-boosters.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs are self-explanatory, but you can shift some Defense EVs into Speed if you wish. 48 Speed EVs allow Nidoqueen to outspeed Rhyperior and Adamant Aggron, and strike them with a super effective Earth Power. With 96 EVs, Nidoqueen outspeeds Adamant Torterra and minimum Speed Altaria. Finally, Nidoqueen is able to outspeed Jolly Aggron with 124 Speed EVs, but the loss of bulk generally isn't worth it. Nidoqueen can use Toxic in her last slot, giving her a way to poison Levitate users and Flying-types, such as Uxie and Moltres. Nidoqueen can also choose to adopt a purely physical set with a moveset of Earthquake, Stone Edge, and Crunch. A physical set will hit Chansey and Registeel harder, Stone Edge will ward off Moltres, while Crunch will allow Nidoqueen to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types for super effective damage.</p>

<p>Since Nidoqueen will most likely be used on defensive teams, it makes sense to add Spikes support, due to Nidoqueen's ability to rack up residual damage with Roar. Cloyster makes a solid Spikes partner since he can set up on Donphan's and Steelix's Earthquake, while Nidoqueen buffers Rock- and Electric-type attacks directed at Cloyster. This set has problems with bulky Waters such as Milotic, Blastoise, and Azumarill. Even Toxic is somewhat unreliable since Milotic and Blastoise both have viable RestTalk sets. Venusaur is a great partner to pair Nidoqueen with since he has the ability to check almost every bulky Water with the appropriate EV investment. Do note, however, that this will give your team an undesirable weakness to Alakazam (and Psychic-type moves in general), so be sure to pack a Spiritomb, Drapion, or Skuntank to remedy this problem. A spinblocker is recommended to keep the hazards Nidoqueen sets up on the field. Rotom and Mismagius make great choices; Rotom can hurt Blastoise with Thunderbolt, while Mismagius can block Foresight with Taunt, and both can use Will-O-Wisp to cripple Donphan and Hitmontop.</p>

<p>Nidoqueen makes a great teammate to Pokemon that can make the most of the entry hazards she sets up. Registeel and Spiritomb can take on common counters such as Haze Milotic with two layers of Toxic Spikes on the field. With poison damage increasing every turn, Milotic will have a difficult time erasing their Curse and Calm Mind boosts. Weather stall teams can also make great use of the Toxic Spikes that Nidoqueen sets up, as well as her ability to absorb them on your side of the field. Hail teams in particular enjoy Nidoqueen as a teammate, thanks to her defensive synergy with Ice-types. Nidoqueen is able to buffer Rock- and Fighting-type attacks aimed at your Ice-types, while she benefits from having an 100% accurate Blizzard, and having teammates that are able to take any Ice and Water attacks aimed at her.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Nidoqueen has such a vast offensive movepool that you could expect the words “super effective” to appear many times throughout a battle. Aqua Tail, Blizzard, Body Slam, Crunch, Dragon Pulse, Fire Blast, Flamethrower, Focus Blast, Focus Punch, Outrage, Pursuit, Rock Slide, Shadow Ball, Superpower, and Thunderbolt are just some of the moves that she has at her disposal. Unfortunately, Nidoqueen lacks the stats to effectively make use of purely offensive sets, so you are better off using Nidoking, who has an almost identical movepool, higher Speed, and hits harder than Nidoqueen.</p>

<p>Nidoqueen also has other support options outside of entry hazards and Roar. Nidoqueen has access to both Taunt and Super Fang, allowing her to take down walls that she wouldn't be able to otherwise. However, because of Nidoqueen's lack of recovery, forcing your opponent to attack will significantly reduce her survivability. Nidoqueen also has access to Charm and Captivate to reduce her opponent's Attack and Special Attack, respectively, forcing them to switch and thus racking up entry hazard damage. However, note that Captivate will only work on male Pokemon, so female special attackers will still be able to set up on Nidoqueen.</p>

<p>Rest is Nidoqueen's only method of recovery, but thanks to her typing and defensive stats, a RestTalk set is quite a viable option for Nidoqueen. With Rest and Sleep Talk, Nidoqueen becomes an excellent status absorber and her survivability greatly increases. Nidoqueen has multiple options for her other moves; Roar could be considered the best choice, since Sleep Talk negates its negative priority, and it prevents your opponent from setting up on Nidoqueen. Toxic Spikes can be used, but once you get two layers up, it is a waste of a slot, and Sleep Talk will end up only having a 1/3 chance of selecting a useful move. Ice Beam and Dragon Pulse are Nidoqueen's best options for the last moveslot; Dragon Pulse has amazing neutral coverage, only being resisted by Steel-types, while Ice Beam allows Nidoqueen to hit opposing Ground- and Grass-types for super effective damage.</p>


[Checks and Counters]

<p>Milotic, Blastoise, Slowbro, and Azumarill are perfect counters to Nidoqueen since their bulk allows them to switch into her attacks quite easily. However, they must watch out for Toxic and Toxic Spikes if they lack Rest. Gardevoir and Espeon have respectable Special Defense stats and can switch into Nidoqueen and threaten her with Psychic. Venusaur absorbs Toxic Spikes and brushes off Ice Beam thanks to his high Special Defense stat. He can also incapacitate Nidoqueen with Sleep Powder and set up Swords Dance or attack outright with Leaf Storm or Earthquake.</p>