[Overview]

<p>Octillery has always been a mixed bag. On one hand, its offenses are potent, and its movepool is phenomenal. On the other hand, its low Speed tends to hold it back from offensive stardom. That being said, its Suction Cups ability, combined with an amazing movepool and above-average offensive stats make it a top-notch recipient of Speed boosts, and unprepared foes will often be swept by it before they know what sucked them in. Octillery generally needs a bit of help to achieve its full offensive potential, but when it gets that support, it can be extremely deadly.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass Receiver
move 1: Surf
move 2: Energy Ball
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Fire Blast / Charge Beam
item: Life Orb / Lum Berry
ability: Suction Cups
nature: Modest
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Octillery makes a natural choice for a Baton Pass recipient due to its offensive prowess and Suction Cups ability. The goal of this set is to Baton Pass Octillery the stat boosts it needs in order to sweep. Speed is the number one priority, as Octillery's base 45 Speed will not get the job done on its own. Special Attack boosts are also great, as Octillery will be looking to score OHKOs to avoid relying on its mediocre defenses. With four strong attacks in its arsenal, it hits almost every Pokemon in UU for super effective damage. Fire Blast is recommended, as it 2HKOes Registeel after Stealth Rock damage. Charge Beam is great for boosting Octillery's Special Attack if you can find the opportunity to use it. Life Orb nets Octillery some key KOs against common opponents and thus is the recommended option, but Lum Berry can also come in handy, as sleep or paralysis will end any chances of a sweep.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Octillery's ability, Suction Cups, as well as its amazing movepool and poor Speed make it a prime recipient of Speed boosts in UU. Its respectable base 105 Special Attack combined with effective coverage makes Octillery a top-notch sweeper in UU after it is passed some Speed.</p>

<p>The hard-hitting trio of Surf, Energy Ball, and Ice Beam provide excellent type coverage. Surf is a given for STAB, Energy Ball hits pesky Water-types that will inevitably attempt to wall you, and Ice Beam hits Grass-types and Altaria. In the last slot, Fire Blast is recommended for super effective type coverage, as it hits Magneton, Dry Skin Toxicroak, and, most importantly, Registeel, whom it 2HKOes 100% of the time after Stealth Rock. It also hits Grass-types harder than Ice Beam if you are willing to gamble with its 85% accuracy and can OHKO 4/0 Venusaur without Stealth Rock damage, which Ice Beam can only do 75% of the time after Stealth Rock. Charge Beam is also a nice addition to this set, as it allows Octillery to boost its Special Attack in addition to damaging Water-types that attempt to wall it. The drawback is finding a time it can actually squeeze in a Charge Beam, which can be rare and risky. However, if Octillery can get a boost or two in this way (or better yet, from a Baton Passer), it will turn into an absolute wrecking ball and can sweep entire teams in a heartbeat.</p>

<p>Life Orb is the recommended item, as Octillery needs the extra power, especially if it is not receiving Special Attack boosts. The important KOs listed above are typically only achievable with the aid of Life Orb. In addition, Milotic is 2HKOed almost 90% of the time by Energy Ball after Stealth Rock damage, which is extremely important, as Recover would otherwise allow it to wall Octillery. Lum Berry, however, is a good secondary item for a number of reasons. First, it allows Octillery to come in on expected status moves and shrug them off, especially in the case of Registeel. It also protects against specially defensive Clefable and Altaria, who usually resort to Toxic in order to damage Octillery. Additionally, powerful priority moves, such as Absol's Sucker Punch, can do up to 2/3 damage on Octillery, which makes Life Orb dangerous at times.</p>

<p>There is certainly no shortage of Speed Passers in UU. Ambipom, Solrock, and Lopunny all specialize in this, just to name a few. Blaziken actually pulls this off very well, despite its rarity as a Baton Passer. Passing Agility is about the last thing opponents expect Blaziken to do, which certainly works to its advantage, as common switch-ins like Milotic and Slowbro can do nothing to prevent it from sending boosts Octillery's way. Octillery also handles Surfs aimed at Blaziken quite easily and can utilize Charge Beam for super effective damage and a chance to boost its Special Attack. Nasty Plot Passers are also certainly welcome and will greatly increase Octillery's chances of sweeping. Mr. Mime, Ambipom, and Hypno can all do this effectively in UU. Stealth Rock also helps Octillery net some key KOs, as shown by the above calculations, so it is a must-have for this set if Special Attack boosts are not in the cards.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Special Attacker
move 1: Water Spout
move 2: Surf / Waterfall
move 3: Energy Ball
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Expert Belt / Wave Incense
ability: Sniper
nature: Quiet
ivs: 0 Spe
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpD / 252 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Octillery's low speed and good offensive stats make it a natural beneficiary of Trick Room. The key to using this set is to get Octillery in for free after using Trick Room and letting it run wild on your opponent's team. Water Spout is the focal point of this set, as it will score a KO for Octillery the vast majority of the time when used at full health. Surf is necessary to supplement Water Spout, although Waterfall is also an option if you fear Chansey. Expert Belt is preferred over Life Orb, as the latter would be shooting yourself in the foot due to the nature of Water Spout. Wave Incense is also an option to boost Water Spout's power against neutral opponents.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>For similar reasons to the Baton Pass Recipient set, Octillery also benefits immensely from Trick Room support. In Trick Room, it can not only utilize its terrible Speed, but also its newest move, Water Spout. Water Spout hits tremendously hard and essentially 2HKOes (at worst) everything that doesn't resist it. Water Spout is also the reason Life Orb should not be used, as Octillery will need to preserve its HP as best it can to do maximum damage. Expert Belt is a great option and will help score important 2HKOes on Water-types. Wave Incense is also an option if you would rather boost Octillery's Water-type moves, which isn't a bad idea on this set. Ice Beam and Energy Ball naturally follow Water Spout for type coverage, allowing Octillery to hit Grass-types, Water-types, and Altaria for super effective damage. Surf supplements Water Spout and is the stronger attack once Octillery's HP drops below 63%. Waterfall is also an option here, but is really only useful against Chansey.</p>

<p>This set clearly revolves around giving Octillery the maximum amount of turns in Trick Room, which essentially means it needs a teammate that can twist the dimensions then get the hell out of the way. There are a number of Pokemon who can do this especially well, including Uxie, Mesprit, Exeggutor, and Solrock. All four of these Pokemon can set up Trick Room, and the former two can use U-turn, while the latter two can use Explosion. Both of these moves allow Octillery to not only get a free switch in, but also scout the opponent in some cases. Banette (Destiny Bond), Claydol (Explosion), and Cresselia (Lunar Dance) can also pull this off.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Choice
move 1: Water Spout
move 2: Surf
move 3: Energy Ball
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Choice Specs / Choice Scarf
ability: Sniper
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The goal of these sets is to hit opponents as hard as possible with varying Speed and power, depending on your choice of items. A Modest nature with Choice Specs maximizes Octillery's power and allows it to outpace most walls in UU, as well. A Timid nature with Choice Scarf, meanwhile, morphs Octillery into an unexpected revenge killer, as it will outspeed all neutral base 100s and maximum Speed base 90s. Water Spout is the key to making both these sets successful, as it will hit extremely hard, even when unboosted. It is also very difficult to switch into, due to its excellent neutral type coverage, so Octillery won't mind being locked into it. Surf is necessary to cover Water Spout when Octillery's HP falls below 63% while Energy Ball and Ice Beam are givens as they provide excellent type coverage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its newest move, Water Spout, Octillery makes a respectable Choice Scarf user in the lower tiers, while a Choice Specs set is a no-brainer. Although it is slower than fellow Water Spout users Blastoise and Wailord, it hits the hardest (even with a Timid nature). It also has the benefit of Energy Ball, which not only hits Water-types for higher damage than Hidden Power, but also has the opportunity to lower Special Defense.</p>

<p>For Choice Specs, a Modest nature is recommended, as Octillery will want all the power it can get. A full-powered Choice Specs-boosted Water Spout is incredibly powerful coming off a 105 base Special Attack, especially when it gets STAB. To put it in perspective, it has a tiny chance to 2HKO Chansey after Stealth Rock damage, an incredible feat for any special attacker. Water Spout's impressive neutral type coverage also makes it very difficult to switch into safely, especially considering Octillery manages to outspeed many of UU's top walls. To avoid sounding like a broken record, Ice Beam and Energy Ball serve the same purpose here that they do in every Octillery set. When your HP falls below 63%, Surf will hit harder than Water Spout, which makes Surf a necessary supplementary STAB attack. It is also a good idea to use Surf if you are forced to take an attack before firing off one of your own, as Octillery's defenses will not keep it above 63% for long.</p>

<p>For Choice Scarf, either nature is acceptable; as per the usual, the decision comes down to a what you want to outspeed. Unfortunately, with a Modest nature, Octillery falls one heartbreaking Speed point shy of tying maximum Speed base 80s, which is necessary for it to fully check threats like Blaziken, Kabutops, Medicham, and Venusaur. It still does a decent job of checking these Pokemon, as they often will be running neutral-Speed natures. Timid nature earns the recommended choice, as you not only outspeed all base 80s, but also neutral base 100s and maximum Speed base 90s, a list that includes common variants of Arcanine, Magmortar, Miltank, Nidoking, Leafeon, and Moltres.</p>

<p>With a Choice Scarf, Octillery excels as a revenge killer, as opponents will not expect Octillery to be attacking before sweepers like Moltres and Venusaur. Water Spout also makes it tricky to switch into, as any fragile Pokemon who doesn't resist it will surely take a beating. With its added Speed, Octillery can also rampage through teams in the late game once bulky Waters and speedy revenge killers are taken care of.</p>

<p>Although these sets function quite differently, they benefit from many of the same teammates. Grass-types like Venusaur and Sceptile are recommended to cover Octillery's weaknesses and take out the bulky Waters that stand in its way. Taking out the few Pokemon who can easily take Octillery's attacks is important, as it will allow Octillery to punch holes in the rest of your opponent's Pokemon with ease. A Rapid Spinner is a must-have due to Water Spout's dependency on HP. Entry hazards of your own also help, as Octillery will often force switches. A Pokemon with Thunder Wave, such as Registeel, can help make opposing Pokemon slower than Octillery, which is a huge benefit.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Signal Beam, Flamethrower, and Psychic have yet to be mentioned, as they are largely overshadowed by Ice Beam, which covers many of the Pokemon these attacks are meant to hit. However, these attacks do allow Octillery to hit Psychic-, Steel-, and Fighting-types, respectively, for super effective damage. A Scope Lens set could be in tandem with Sniper to deliver more frequent and powerful critical hits, which are sure to decimate any opponent with the misfortune of encountering one. However, Octillery is a bit too slow and fragile to make this truly worthwhile, and it is better off boosting its power in more reliable ways. Toxic and Thunder Wave also have their merits. Toxic can hurt switch-ins such as Milotic and Ludicolo, while Thunder Wave is an unexpected way to bring opponents down to Octillery's level of Speed.</p>

<p>Finally, a physical set, likely with a Choice Band attached, could wreak havoc on unsuspecting opponents. Octillery's Attack and Special Attack stats are equal, but special attacks are the focus of most of the sets due to their higher Base Power. However, it does get access to an impressive physical movepool that includes Waterfall, Gunk Shot, Seed Bomb, Bounce, Rock Blast, and Return. In addition to Choice Band, Octillery could also fair well as a physical Baton Pass recipient for the same reasons it makes a great special attacking one.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As expected, Chansey and bulky Waters make the best counters to Octillery. However, due to Octillery's awesome power, they all must be careful when switching in. Chansey must be wary of rare physical moves and switching in at low health, as Water Spout packs quite a punch. Ludicolo is probably the best all-around switch-in, as it can take any of Octillery's attacks, barring Gunk Shot and Signal Beam, for neutral damage and can threaten with a STAB Grass attack. Although rare, Mantine rivals Ludicolo for the best switch-in, with its high Special Defense, convenient typing, and Water Absorb ability, although it must watch out for Charge Beam. Milotic is extremely difficult to 2HKO and can wall Octillery with Recover. Toxicroak, with its Water Absorb ability, also makes a great switch-in, as it is only hit neutrally by Ice Beam on most Octillery sets.</p>

<p>Baton Pass recipients, however, are typically a different story. Electrode outspeeds even +2 Modest Octillery and OHKOes with Thunderbolt, making it a great check to Baton Pass recipients. Sucker Punch from Pokemon like Absol and Cacturne will pack quite a wallop, as will Mach Punch from TechniTop and ExtremeSpeed from Arcanine. Fortunately, Octillery benefits greatly in this department from its Water-type, as it resists Bullet Punch and Ice Shard. Octillery can still struggle against many of the Pokemon listed in the last paragraph if it has not amassed any Special Attack boosts, although Charge Beam can certainly help.</p>