[Overview]

<p>Parasect is certainly an interesting and unique Pokemon. His odd typing grants him extremely useful resistances to Water-, Ground-, Grass-, Fighting-, and Electric-type attacks, and his defenses are decent enough to utilize these resistances effectively. His excellent ability, Dry Skin, allows him to switch into bulky Water-types with ease, and also slightly heals him at the end of every turn while in the rain, giving Parasect a unique niche on Rain Dance teams. However, none of the aforementioned factors are Parasect's main selling point. Parasect's most useful trait, by far, is his access to Spore, which gives him the ability to cripple any counter temporarily, almost always allowing Parasect to damage the opposing team in some way. All of these unique characteristics make Parasect stand out amongst both his Bug- and Grass-type brethren, giving him competitive value and usability.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, it isn't all good news for Parasect. Parasect's typing grants him horrible, crippling weaknesses to Fire-, Flying-, Poison-, Rock-, Ice-, and Bug-type attacks, most of which are common in the UU metagame. Parasect is also exceedingly slow, and is outsped by almost every Pokemon in the UU tier, except for Slowbro and Steelix (whom he speed-ties with). Due to these two traits, it's extremely easy to hit Parasect with a strong super effective attack once he switches in. In conclusion, Parasect, despite his many faults, can prove fairly useful to a team thanks to his unique assets.</p>

[SET]
name: Double Status
move 1: Spore
move 2: Stun Spore 
move 3: Synthesis
move 4: Seed Bomb / X-Scissor
item: Leftovers
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Careful
evs: 248 HP / 8 Def / 252 SpD 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With access to two useful status-inducing moves, a slew of handy resistances, reliable recovery, and respectable defensive stats, Parasect can act as a superb status spreader. Parasect can switch into many common Pokemon, such as Milotic, with ease, which gives him plenty of opportunities to switch in and spread status. Though Parasect's numerous weaknesses can cripple him in this regard, the opponent cannot switch in Pokemon who can target Parasect's weaknesses easily due to the threat of Spore and Stun Spore.</p>

<p>Spore is this set's main selling point, forcing the opponent to be constantly wary of switching Pokemon into Parasect haphazardly. It should be noted that Parasect may not wish to use Spore immediately; though it may seem tempting to do so, the constant threat of Spore will pose a psychological threat against the opponent, and you may wish to scout the opposing team for any Sleep Talkers before using up Parasect's precious Spore. Stun Spore allows Parasect to act as an effective paralysis spreader, and, since Stun Spore's paralysis is only negated by Pokemon with the Limber ability, Parasect is almost guaranteed to paralyze an opposing Pokemon once he gets in safely. Stun Spore is also the safer option to use immediately, since it can catch a threatening Pokemon like Arcanine on the switch. Synthesis gives Parasect a means of reliable recovery, and further adds to Parasect's nice bulk. Finally, Seed Bomb rounds off the set by providing a reliable STAB move that still hits fairly hard off of Parasect's respectable Attack stat, despite the lack of EV investment. However, X-Scissor can be used over Seed Bomb to hit Grass-, Psychic-, and Dark-types harder, though Seed Bomb's better type coverage means that it is generally the better option.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs of this set go towards increasing Parasect's special bulk. This is because many of Parasect's resistances, such as those against Water-, Electric-, and Grass-type attacks, are more commonly seen as special attacks, which makes investing in Special Defense more worthwhile than investing in Defense. For example, a specially defensive Parasect takes relatively little damage from Milotic's Ice Beam, which allows him to switch into Milotic with ease; it also allows him to survive some strong super effective attacks, such as Life Orb Venusaur's Sludge Bomb. Also, despite being specially-based, Parasect can still take Choice Band Close Combats and Earthquakes when need be. However, a physically defensive spread isn't a terrible option, as it does allow Parasect to check Pokemon like Dragon Dance Feraligatr.</p>

<p>This set has numerous options that can be used over the suggested ones. While Dry Skin is usually the better ability, Effect Spore can be useful to allow Parasect to spread status by simply switching into a contact move. The immunity to Water-type attacks that Dry Skin provides is generally too useful to pass up, however. Knock Off can be used in Stun Spore's stead to remove opposing Pokemon's items, but the paralysis offered by Stun Spore is generally more useful. Finally, Aromatherapy is a useful option to cure Parasect and his teammates of status, but it's difficult to find a place for it on this set.</p>

<p>Since this Parasect can act as a very effective status— in particular, paralysis — spreader, slow, powerful Pokemon work well with him. Rhyperior is perhaps the best of these, as he resists all of Parasect's weaknesses except for Ice-type attacks, and in exchange, Parasect resists Rhyperior's nasty weaknesses to Water-, Grass-, Ground-, and Fighting-type moves. However, Aggron, Hariyama, Azumarill, and Ursaring are all good choices as well, though they unfortunately don't have the almost perfect defensive synergy that Rhyperior and Parasect share.</p>

<p>Defensively, bulky Water-types can be useful, since they resist Parasect's weaknesses to Fire- and Ice-type attacks, and the combination of Water- and Grass-type Pokemon is a fairly decent defensive tandem. Milotic, Blastoise, and Lanturn are great bulky Water-types who can also complement Parasect in other ways. Since Parasect is very prone to status, having a cleric on your team can be useful; Clefable, Chansey, and Lanturn are great Pokemon to fulfill this role. Due to his Stealth Rock weakness, Parasect appreciates Rapid Spin support, as Stealth Rock will cause some attacks that would otherwise be manageable to 2HKO or OHKO him, and is generally extremely annoying for Parasect to deal with. Hitmontop, Blastoise, and Donphan are all excellent Rapid Spinners, since they can all deal with spinblockers who may attempt to halt their attempts to Rapid Spin.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Spore
move 2: Seed Bomb / Brick Break
move 3: X-Scissor / Brick Break 
move 4: Pursuit / Synthesis
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Adamant
evs: 248 HP / 252 Atk / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set attempts to use Parasect's good base 95 Attack in the form of a bulky attacker. Spore is the main option on this set, as it's Parasect's main weapon against his counters. Seed Bomb and X-Scissor have decent coverage together, and are both boosted by STAB. Pursuit is a great attack to use alongside Spore; since Spore tends to force switches, Pursuit can smack the Pokemon who switch out for decent damage. Parasect can also use it to trap unsuspecting Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon. Brick Break is a usable option over either of Parasect's STAB moves, since it hits the Steel-types who wall both of his STABs for respectable damage. However, Parasect probably still won't be able to break through the majority of Steel-types of UU, so it isn't recommended. Synthesis is a decent option over Pursuit to give Parasect a form of reliable recovery, and it complements either item choice well. Life Orb gives Parasect's attacks more sting, but it comes at the cost of reduced longevity. However, with Dry Skin (and possibly Synthesis) to make up for it, Life Orb is a decent option, though Leftovers is always the safer choice.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Attack EVs and an Adamant nature are used, as Parasect needs all the power it can get. To give you an idea of how weak Parasect can be, even with max Attack, Parasect isn’t guaranteed to 2HKO a full-HP Milotic with Seed Bomb without Life Orb (factoring in Milotic's Leftovers). Due to this, Parasect really can't afford to sacrifice any of his investment in Attack. While you may feel tempted to invest the remaining EVs into Speed, it's really not worth it. Parasect is so slow that a heavy amount of investment is required to outspeed even slow, defensive Pokemon such as Registeel and Chansey, and, even then, it's hardly worth it since Parasect will rarely be able to muster a 2HKO on the aforementioned Pokemon. As such, the remaining EVs are placed into HP to boost Parasect's respectable bulk.</p>

<p>In addition to the numerous options that are presented on this set, there are a couple of other interesting choices that can be used. Return is Parasect's strongest option against Flying- and Fire-types, and it prevents Parasect from being utterly walled by the likes of Moltres and Blaziken. Stun Spore can be used over one of this set's coverage moves to slow down opposing Pokemon so that Parasect can actually outspeed them, but sacrificing coverage isn't good for this set, as this set relies on type coverage to deal damage due to Parasect's mediocre Attack stat. Aromatherapy is an option alongside Synthesis to create a self-reliant and fairly bulky mono-attacker. However, as stated before, sacrificing coverage really hurts Parasect in the long run. Lastly, Choice Band is a decent item choice, but Parasect really despises being locked into one of his heavily resisted STAB moves (or Spore, for that matter).</p>

<p>Since this Parasect's main prey are Water-, Grass-, and Ground-type Pokemon, Pokemon that have issues with these types complement this set well. Rhyperior, Aggron, and Blaziken are great examples of Pokemon who lure these types of Pokemon in, and they all pack resistances to some of Parasect's weaknesses. They're also all able to deal with bulky Steel-types, whom Parasect despises. In return, Parasect is able to take out Pokemon such as Lanturn and Donphan, whom the aforementioned powerhouses have issues with.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Parasect's movepool, while not particularly diverse, does hold a few interesting options. Swords Dance, Agility, and Growth are all boosting moves that Parasect has access to, and he can use each of them with moderate success. Thanks to Parasect's respectable bulk and access to Spore, he doesn't have too many issues obtaining the boosts. However, in the case of Swords Dance and Growth, Parasect is simply far too slow and has too many common weaknesses to utilize these moves effectively, while with Agility, Parasect is too weak. If one uses Trick Room support alongside either Swords Dance or Growth though, Parasect has a much better chance at pulling off a successful sweep. In a similar vein, Screech is an interesting option to weaken the foe's Defense, and with Pursuit, Parasect can smack fleeing Pokemon for large amounts of damage. Unfortunately, like the aforementioned Swords Dance, Parasect is simply too slow to use this strategy effectively.</p>

<p>In terms of support options, Parasect has access to Aromatherapy, Knock Off, Light Screen, and Worry Seed. Aromatherapy can be used to clear status, and, thanks to Parasect's resistances and bulk, can be used with decent success. Sadly, Parasect often has trouble finding room for it. Knock Off is a great move that can remove key items from opposing Pokemon, but just like Aromatherapy, it's hard to fit it in on any of Parasect's sets. Light Screen can bolster Parasect's Special Defense further, and can be used alongside Counter to encourage foes to attack Parasect physically, allowing Parasect to respond with Counter. Worry Seed can remove important abilities from the opposing Pokemon, but changing the opponent's ability to Insomnia heavily clashes with Parasect's main weapon: Spore.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The main problem with countering Parasect is his ability to essentially remove one of his counters with Spore. Once Sleep Clause has been activated though, Parasect becomes much easier to deal with. RestTalkers such as Arcanine and Weezing can easily absorb Spore, and don't really fear being slept thanks to Sleep Talk. They also can easily threaten Parasect with their super effective STAB attacks. Alternatively, you can use a Pokemon with Vital Spirit or Insomnia to act as a decent switch-in to Parasect. Unfortunately, most of the Pokemon who have these two abilities are either frail enough to be overcome by Parasect's attacks or are weak to one of Parasect's STAB moves. Thus, out of the Pokemon who have these two abilities, Primeape and Noctowl are likely the best options to use against Parasect, as Noctowl is bulky enough to easily take Parasect's attacks while Primeape can threaten Parasect with Stone Edge, Ice Punch, or U-turn.</p>

<p>If you don't have either of these options, defensive Pokemon are decent switch-ins to Spore, since they should be bulky enough to survive being asleep for a couple of turns. Registeel is a prime example of this, since it's extremely bulky and resists almost all of Parasect's attacks. If Sleep Clause has been activated, Fire- and Flying-types easily wall Parasect. In particular, Swellow is perhaps the most dangerous out of this group, as he will often be burned or poisoned, granting him immunity to Stun Spore, and can easily shift the momentum in your team's favor with U-turn. Really, once Sleep Clause has been activated, any Pokemon who doesn't mind paralysis and resists Parasect's STABs will do just fine against him.</p>