[Overview]

<p>Ever since its introduction, Piloswine has been continually bashed as a bad Pokemon due to its terrible defensive typing, in addition to horrid Special Attack, Special Defense, and Speed stats, which was particularly bad since Ice-type moves were entirely special attacks. However, the 4th generation changed Piloswine's fortunes by introducing the physical/special split and giving it Ice Shard and Ice Fang, as well as an evolution in Mamoswine. Despite being overshadowed by every other Ground-type, including its evolution, Piloswine has enough tools at its disposal to inflict damage in UU, thanks to its good Attack stat, decent physical bulk, and STAB moves.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Ice Shard
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Substitute / Ice Fang
move 4: Stone Edge
item: Life Orb / Choice Band
ability: Snow Cloak
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Despite Piloswine's low Speed, its Attack stat is hard to ignore when combined with its natural bulk, coverage, immunities to both hail and sandstorm, and STAB Ice Shard. Ice Shard is Piloswine's primary attacking option, since it ignores Piloswine's horrible Speed stat thanks to its priority. Earthquake, running off STAB and Piloswine's above-average Attack stat, devastates any Pokemon that attempts to switch in on a predicted Ice Shard. Substitute gives Piloswine more time to survive, while also forcing the opponent's hand by revealing their switch-in without any risk to Piloswine itself. In addition, Substitute protects Piloswine from priority moves and status, two problems that severely limit Piloswine's potential. However, Ice Fang can be used to net important kills that Ice Shard does not. Stone Edge rounds out the set, providing excellent coverage with Earthquake, while also making Pokemon such as Moltres less keen to switch in.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Toxic is a viable option over Ice Fang in order to hamper bulky Pokemon that love to switch into Piloswine, such as Blastoise, Milotic, and Rotom. Avalanche also deserves a mention over Ice Fang, as Piloswine will usually be going last, ensuring that Avalanche's secondary effect will almost always activate. Piloswine also has the physical bulk to survive a hit, making Avalanche even more worthy of a mention. A Choice Band can be used to increase Piloswine's power at the cost of being locked into a move. For example, with a Choice Band and a Jolly nature, Earthquake has a chance to 2HKO Utility Blastoise and Mono Attacker Spiritomb after Stealth Rock damage. A Jolly nature maximizes Piloswine's Speed, and is preferred so that Piloswine is not outrun by 8 Speed Milotic, but an Adamant nature is also viable for more power; with an Adamant nature, Piloswine has a higher chance of 2HKOing Donphan (with Ice Fang) and RestTalk Milotic (with Earthquake).</p>

<p>Snover makes a great partner to Piloswine, as it provides the hail needed for Piloswine to abuse Snow Cloak. Weezing is also an excellent teammate because it cripples Fighting-types, such as Hitmontop and Hitmonlee, that may give Piloswine trouble. Moreover, Weezing can act as a decent status absorber with RestTalk. Chansey can also absorb status, sponge special attacks aimed at Piloswine, and provide Wish and Heal Bell support. Uxie and Mesprit resist Fighting-type moves, and can also set up Stealth Rock before crippling potential threats with Thunder Wave. Additionally, both Psychic-types can help against opposing Weezing, which is a huge threat to Piloswine. Houndoom appreciates Piloswine's abilities to lure Fire-type attacks and weaken the opposing team, giving it an opportunity to clean up stragglers. Slowbro and Slowking can take any Fire-, Water-, and Fighting-type moves that Piloswine attracts, and slow down other threats that might hinder Piloswine's sweep with Thunder Wave.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Piloswine has a couple of other options that it can use. Superpower is pretty awesome coming off of a base 100 Attack stat, but has overlapping coverage with Earthquake, which is more powerful, and also has that hateful Attack drop. A mixed attacking set with Ice Beam can catch physical walls off guard, but Piloswine's base 60 Special Attack stat is a huge letdown. Piloswine can attempt to run a physically defensive set with Curse, or patch up its horrid Special Defense with Amnesia; however, its poor typing leaves it vulnerable to many common attacking types. The furry pig can also run an Endeavor set, with its immunity to damaging weather, but priority is still an issue. A lead set is possible, thanks to access to Stealth Rock and Ice Shard, but many common leads beat it. Piloswine's other supporting moves include Reflect, Light Screen, Roar, and Charm, but its typing undermines the possibility of a support set.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to Piloswine's excellent coverage, it is actually hard to switch in a counter, as a misprediction could easily result in the loss of the switch-in. Weezing is the best Pokemon to deal with Piloswine, thanks to its naturally high Defense, immunities to both Earthquake and Toxic, access to Will-O-Wisp, and ability to melt Piloswine away with Fire-type attacks. Uxie can set up Stealth Rock in Piloswine's face while taking its attacks easily. Bulky Water-types such as Milotic and Blastoise are also safe switch-ins against anything but Toxic. Hitmontop resists Stone Edge, significantly reduces Piloswine's offensive capabilities with Intimidate, and threatens it with STAB Close Combat and a Technician Fake Out/Mach Punch combination. Moltres can switch into either of Piloswine's STABs if Stealth Rock is not up, then proceed to burn it away with its Fire-type STAB. However, a mispredicted switch into Stone Edge would be a death sentence for the fiery bird.</p>