[Overview]

<p>At first glance, many people will doubt Roselia's effectiveness in UU due to its frail physical defense, low Speed, and the existence of better Grass-types. However, if you take a closer glance at its movepool, you will find that it has a interesting variety of moves that give it its own special niche. Unlike the common Grass-types, Roselia has access to the ever-so-useful Spikes, in addition to Toxic Spikes, and the ability to absorb status with ease thanks to Natural Cure. Roselia also comes equipped with a high base 100 Special Attack, which ties with the omnipresent Venusaur. Last but not least, Roselia's usable base 80 Special Defense gives it plenty of opportunities to set up deadly entry hazards on helpless foes. As long as you abuse its niches to their fullest, Roselia can be well worth the use.</p>

[SET]
name: Spikes
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Stun Spore
move 3: Synthesis / Leech Seed
move 4: Energy Ball
item: Leftovers
ability: Natural Cure
nature: Calm
evs: 240 HP / 208 SpD / 60 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>If your team is in need of a Pokemon that is able to set up Spikes and take on many defensive threats, Spikes Roselia may indeed be the Pokemon for you. Roselia is one of two Grass-types with access to Spikes (the other being Cacturne) and has the typing and Special Defense necessary to set up Spikes on many Pokemon. Milotic, Registeel, Chansey, Rotom, and even some Venusaur (although it may require the -2 Special Attack drop from Leaf Storm first) can all be Spiked upon with ease. If Roselia's HP drops too much, Synthesis or Leech Seed can be used to restore health, while its ability, Natural Cure, cures any status ailments afflicted upon Roselia. Stun Spore can be a huge boost for Roselia by paralyzing offensive threats, especially since there are no other viable status moves available (Sleep Powder and Spikes are illegal together). Common switch-ins to this set include Arcanine, Moltres, and Mismagius, all of which are extremely hindered and almost unusable after being paralyzed with Stun Spore. To prevent Roselia from being stopped completely by Taunt, Energy Ball is used in the last moveslot. Energy Ball also deals impressive damage to many common Rapid Spinners, including Donphan, Kabutops, and Blastoise.</p>

<p>Synthesis is the preferred option over Leech Seed, as Synthesis gives Roselia a reliable recovery move that can't be blocked by immunities, missing, or Substitute. However, Leech Seed can force more switches, giving it more time to use Spikes. The decision ultimately comes down to how long you wish to keep Roselia alive. If its purpose on your team is to set up Spikes whenever possible and just sit as a filler, Leech Seed is probably the better option. However, if you want Roselia to be able to stay alive and be a decent answer to many Rapid Spinners as well as other special attackers, Synthesis is much better. The last attack should usually be Energy Ball to deal with Rapid Spinners, but Sludge Bomb is the stronger STAB attack. However, Sludge Bomb has many problems as an attacking move, allowing Pokemon such as Rhyperior to set up easily on it and giving Milotic an easier time surviving and eventually damaging Roselia.</p>

[Additional Comments]

<p>Shed Shell can be a somewhat useful item, as Roselia is dreadfully weak to Dugtrio. If your team relies on Spikes, Shed Shell may be a good item to use, if only to ensure Roselia's safety. 60 Speed EVs allow it to outspeed Hitmontop, which sometimes might allow Roselia to finish Hitmontop off with Energy Ball before it can Rapid Spin your Spikes away. You could add to bulk and make Roselia’s EV spread 252 HP / 252 SpD / 4 Spe, but there is no reason to not try and take advantage of outspeeding a Rapid Spinner. Roselia could run 96 Speed EVs to outspeed Jolly 252 Speed Rhyperior, although the current spread will outspeed Adamant 252 Speed Rhyperior. The choice depends entirely on how much bulk you are willing to sacrifice. Rest can be used over either of the healing moves, giving Roselia full recovery at very low cost due to Natural Cure's status healing ability. However, it forces Roselia to switch out and back in to be useful again, giving the opponent free turns as well.</p>

<p>Offensive teams truly benefit from Roselia’s Spikes, as they turn many 2HKOs into OHKOs. It can also help cover many holes found in offensive teams, such as weaknesses to Registeel, Chansey, and even Rotom. However, Roselia is not much of an attacker and should not be used to keep the momentum rolling; instead, use it set up more layers of Spikes to ensure that other sweepers can clean up. Stall teams appreciate Roselia very much, as it provides a valuable check to many Pokemon that threaten stall-based Pokemon. A partner such as Milotic to take Fire-type attacks without much harm can help Roselia obtain extra turns for Spiking.</p>

<p>Roselia's major issue is its general lack of stats. Being a pre-evolution, it unfortunately doesn't have the Speed and defenses to defend against many powerful Pokemon found in UU. Every Fire-type and any strong physical attacker can easily OHKO Roselia. It must also beware of Hitmontop that carry Foresight - if Roselia switches to a Ghost-type to try and block Rapid Spin, Hitmontop can use Foresight to KO them, while if Roselia stays in, it risks being taken out by Hitmontop due to its low bulk. Therefore, bulky Water-types and a double Ghost strategy can be useful. Milotic can safeguard Roselia from Fire-types with ease due to its huge special bulk, while utilizing two of either Rotom, Spiritomb, or Mismagius can help block Hitmontop's spin easily.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Spikes
move 1: Toxic Spikes / Spikes
move 2: Sleep Powder / Synthesis
move 3: Leaf Storm / Energy Ball
move 4: Sludge Bomb
item: Leftovers
ability: Natural Cure
nature: Modest
evs: 252 HP / 120 SpA / 136 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>This set takes a much more offensive approach that is still designed to set up entry hazards. Egg move limitations prevent Roselia from running certain move combinations, meaning that which form of Spikes you want to run will influence the rest of the moveset.</p>

<p>Sleep Powder and Leaf Storm, both of which are illegal with Spikes and are meant to be used with Toxic Spikes, turn Roselia into a fierce weapon that can force switches, giving it even more chances to use Toxic Spikes. Leaf Storm has 210 Base Power after factoring in STAB, making Roselia a frightening threat. The last slot is saved for Sludge Bomb, which gives great neutral coverage all-around. Spikes is an alternative over Toxic Spikes for laying the hurt on every grounded Pokemon, while not being easily absorbed by Poison-types, unlike Toxic Spikes. If you opt for Spikes, then running Synthesis and Energy Ball over Sleep Powder and Leaf Storm, respectively, is a must. Synthesis gives Roselia a instant recovery move that allows for more set up time throughout a match, while Energy Ball enables Roselia to deal consistent damage overall.</p>

[Additional Comments]
<p>The Speed EVs allow Roselia to outspeed almost every variant of Milotic except Life Orb versions. Thanks to the Special Attack investment, Roselia can then 2HKO or OHKO Milotic, depending on entry hazards, its move (Energy Ball or Leaf Storm), and Milotic's defenses. 252 EVs in HP give Roselia survivability and the chance to still set up Spikes or Toxic Spikes against more defensive Pokemon.</p>

<p>This set can be transitioned into a lead, putting slower Pokemon to sleep and then setting up Toxic Spikes early. Omastar, for example, can be put to sleep and then set up on or simply KOed. Focus Sash should be used over Leftovers in this case, protecting it from faster leads such as Moltres and putting them to sleep.</p>

<p>Houndoom makes an excellent partner to Roselia, absorbing Fire-type attacks while also using Nasty Plot against sleeping opponents. As an added bonus, many of Houndoom's counters, such as Chansey, Milotic, and Blastoise, despise Toxic Spikes and Spikes. Dugtrio and Fire-types are useful for eliminating grounded Poison-types that absorb Toxic Spikes. Moltres can not only keep them at bay but also use Toxic Spikes to its advantage with a SubRoost set. An odd combination of Roselia and Venusaur can actually work well, despite their redundant typing together. Roselia will lure in the opponent’s Grass/Poison-type counter (usually reserved for Venusaur) and allows you to act accordingly. Afterward, Venusaur can be brought in to set up Swords Dance or wreck opposing teams with Leaf Storm and Sludge Bomb.</p>

<p>Just as Venusaur can be used as an ally, it also is Roselia's great enemy, doing a lot of damage with Life Orb Sludge Bomb or even OHKOing with Swords Dance boosted Returns. Venusaur can also take Roselia's Leaf Storms with ease and absorb Toxic Spikes. In order for Roselia to excel, Venusaur's removal must be prioritized. Other Pokemon to watch out for are faster Fire-types and other Poison-types that can absorb Toxic Spikes and resist Roselia's two STAB attacks. Mismagius is a very dangerous threat, as it is able to Taunt or set up a Substitute on Roselia and then proceed to set up Nasty Plots or Calm Minds.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Every viable option for Roselia is mentioned in this analysis. The only moves with some use that are not given a mention are Cotton Spore and Aromatherapy. However, there is almost no need to temporarily lower an opponent's Speed with Cotton Spore when Stun Spore will permanently disable it, and Roselia cannot waste turns using Aromatherapy, especially when there are much more capable Pokemon that can use it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Roselia's low defenses and average Speed give it a disadvantage against many Pokemon. Fire-types, Flying-types, and hard-hitting Pokemon in general can easily kill it. Pokemon that set up, such as Mismagius and Swords Dance Scyther, can also easily kill it and get free turns to set up. If a Rapid Spinner manages to spin, then Roselia becomes almost dead weight, as it will be unlikely for it to re-set up its entry hazards again, given the scenarios.</p>