[Overview]

<p>Seaking is one of those Pokemon you should probably avoid using at all costs. Keep in mind that if you do decide to use Seaking that it's outclassed by virtually every other Water-type in UU. Its ability, Swift Swim, gives it the ability to outspeed the whole metagame in the rain, but it has little sweeping potential due to its pathetic movepool and stats. Of course, in Pokemon, there is an inverse correlation between the quality of a Pokemon and the amount of satisfaction you get from beating someone with it; let that be your reason for using Seaking.</p>

[SET]
name: FUCK YEAH SEAKING!
move 1: Waterfall / Aqua Tail
move 2: Megahorn
move 3: Return 
move 4: Ice Beam
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Lonely
evs: 252 Atk / 16 SpA / 240 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The choice between Waterfall and Aqua Tail depends on whether you prefer the extra power Aqua Tail provides or Waterfall's higher accuracy. Megahorn puts a dent in the likes of Hypno and Espeon and hits Grass-types, particularly Exeggutor, for super effective damage. Return has legitimate coverage with Water-type attacks, as between them they hit every type in the metagame, save for Shedinja, for neutral damage. The set is rounded out with Ice beam, enabling Seaking to 2HKO Tangrowth and Leafeon and destroying both Torterra and Altaria, two Pokemon Seaking would otherwise be helpless against. Swift Swim is the chosen ability because it doubles Seaking's Speed in the rain, not to mention that under rain its STAB attacks could do with the pseudo-STAB boost.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Seaking's Attack and allows it to outspeed Timid Choice Scarf Rotom and Timid Omastar in the rain. The remaining EVs are dumped into Seaking's Special Attack to give Ice Beam some extra power. Life Orb is the chosen item since the goldfish lacks an array of powerful moves and needs the boost to make up for its unimpressive Attack stat. The 10% recoil damage isn't worth worrying about due to Seaking's poor defenses; he won't be taking neutral hits well in the first place.</p>

<p>When using Seaking, note that it is a huge liability to your team, and in addition to that, it requires a considerable amount of team support for it to function well. Rain Dance is essential for Seaking to function as it cant do much with its appalling base 68 Speed. Uxie and Mespirit are good candidates for the job of providing rain as their bulk allows them to set up Rain Dance several times during the match. They can also provide Stealth Rock support which not only secures certain OHKOes and 2HKOes (Ice Beam has the potential to 2HKO Venusaur after Stealth Rock damage), but also punishes Pokemon attempting to switch out and waste the turns of rain. Electrode and Ambipom are also great Rain Dance users as they have high Speed and pack Taunt, which acts as a safeguard for Seaking, preventing it from getting statused while attempting to sweep.</p>

<p>Other Swift Swim users also make great teammates for Seaking, especially Ludicolo as it can use its STAB Grass-type attacks to get rid of bulky Water-types that stand in Seaking's way. Both Qwilfish and Kabutops can set up Swords Dance and dismantle the opposing team, allowing Seaking to secure an easy late-game sweep. Defensive Pokemon that can take advantage of the temporary rain are also welcome. Registeel is able to withstand a multitude of attacks, negate its Fire-type weakness with Rain Dance, and cripple opposing Pokemon with either Thunder Wave or Toxic; it can also set up Stealth Rock. Rotom and Lanturn can fire off 100% accurate Thunder in the rain and also deal with the opponent's bulky Water-types. Lastly, Venusaur has great synergy with Seaking, resisting both Electric- and Grass-type attacks which Seaking simply cannot take. It can also help take down sturdy walls such as Milotic and Blastoise, both of which wall Seaking with ease.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Seaking has a very shallow movepool, leaving it with only a few options to choose other than those listed. Bounce can be used to nail Fighting-types such as Hitmontop and Toxicroak, while the potential paralysis is also attractive. Bounce is a 2 turn attack, though, meaning the opponent can easily switch-in a counter or even set up on it; it also wastes two turns of rain for a single attack, which is not good. Poison Jab hurts Grass-types such as Leafeon and Tangrowth, however Ice Beam already 2HKOs them. Outside of rain, Seaking can double its Speed using Agility, though due to its fragility there is little it can safely set up on. Even after it has acquired the Speed to outpace the whole metagame bar faster Choice Scarf users, Seaking holds little in its arsenal for it to have a serious chance to sweep.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Water-types stand out as the best counters for Seaking as it lacks anything that can significantly hurt them. Milotic and Blastoise can take several Megahorns to the face, and in return either Toxic stall Seaking or obliterate it with Hidden Power Grass. Poliwrath is the one Pokemon Seaking is completely helpless against, as its typing gives it a resistance to Megahorn and Ice Beam, and Water Absorb will make Water-type moves useless. Venusaur is 3HKOed by Ice Beam, although it can easily outpace Seaking outside of rain and OHKO it with a STAB Grass-type attack. Both Uxie and Mespirit can take a Megahorn or two and cripple Seaking with Thunder Wave in a pinch. Shedinja is immune to all of Seaking's attacks and can set up on it or even cripple it with Will-O-Wisp. Remember that Seaking has poor defenses and Speed, so anything packing a powerful move that can OHKO it will pretty much do this goldfish in if it can find the opportunity to strike.</p>