[Overview]

<p>Shedinja is far and away the most unique Pokemon in the game. It has just 1, yes 1, HP, but it's protected by its ability Wonder Guard, which makes Shedinja completely immune to any damage that isn't a super effective attack or passive damage. While immunity to a whole slew of attacks sounds awesome and would make Shedinja one of the premier walls in the game, it is unfortunately KOed by literally any passive damage, which is rife in today's metagame. Shedinja's stats are also pretty unimpressive; it's extremely slow and has a terrible movepool which undermines its good Attack stat.</p>

<p>Shedinja is hard to use, but it does have a valuable niche in the metagame; it's one of the best counters available for Water-, Grass-, Poison-, and Electric-type Pokemon that lack Toxic or a super effective attack, which normally includes Pokemon such as Milotic, Venusaur, Leafeon, Exeggutor, Lanturn, Slowbro, Azumarill, Feraligatr, and Cloyster, among many others. Shedinja is the definition of high-risk high-reward, and if you can keep it away from Ghost-, Fire-, Rock-, Flying-, and Dark-type attacks, as well as burn, poison, sandstorm, hail, Leech Seed, and entry hazards, it can prove to be the ultimate "win condition" Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Will-O-Wisp
move 3: Shadow Sneak / Sucker Punch
move 4: X-Scissor 
item: Focus Sash / Lum Berry
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set tries to abuse Shedinja's decent base 90 Attack stat and mediocre movepool to its fullest. Using Shedinja is a very complicated ordeal, and the strategy of this set is actually not as straightforward as you'd think. Because there are so many Pokemon that counter Shedinja, the best move to use when you successfully get Shedinja in on a Pokemon that can't harm it, such as Venusaur and Azumarill, is to burn the switch-in with Will-O-Wisp, instead of using Swords Dance right away. The reason behind this is because the go-to counter for Shedinja for most players are Pursuit users, since they can KO Shedinja whether it stays in or not. Shedinja essentially has two lives with a Focus Sash, so after it (hopefully) burns the switch-in and gets hit with Pursuit as it switches out, Shedinja will have one life left to come in again, and the opponent's Pursuit user will be severely crippled by the burn from Will-O-Wisp. This will make it much easier for your team to dispose of the opponent's Pursuit user, and lets Shedinja come in later in the match to set up on whatever Pokemon are left on the opponent's team, without fear of getting trapped by Pursuit.</p>

<p>Shedinja is incredibly slow, so its main attack is left to a priority move. The choice between Shadow Sneak and Sucker Punch is entirely down to personal preference. Shadow Sneak is preferred though due to its consistency, and it is only slightly weaker than Sucker Punch thanks to STAB. X-Scissor is a nice powerful STAB move that grants Shedinja coverage on Normal-types. Shedinja should not begin to Swords Dance until you are confident you know the opponent's team and can predict the opponent's next switch-in. Once you are sure all threats are eliminated, Swords Dance to your heart's delight and watch as your opponent just succumbs to Shedinja's silent might.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The only EVs that matter to Shedinja are those in Attack, since even with a Jolly nature, Shedinja isn't going to be outpacing much, and the priority move of choice bypasses its low Speed stat. Any EVs in its defenses or HP won't do anything, as Shedinja only has 1 HP. Focus Sash is the recommended item, as it grants Shedinja a second life as described above, and protects Shedinja from an unexpected super effective attack, such as Rock Slide from Tangrowth. Lum Berry can be used to save Shedinja from a potentially fatal poison or burn. This is particularly useful against Pokemon like Lanturn or Milotic, who can surprise Shedinja with Toxic. Baton Pass may seem like a golden move to have on this set, but unfortunately, due to legality issues, Shedinja cannot run both Swords Dance and Baton Pass on the same set. Theoretically you could just run Baton Pass over Swords Dance because Shedinja will eventually KO what it needs to KO if the opponent can't touch it, but a Swords Dance-boosted Shadow Sneak OHKOs Mismagius, Alakazam, and Rotom, which can prove invaluable if you're unaware that your opponent was in possession of those Pokemon.</p>

<p>If at all possible, the best way to play with Shedinja is to keep it hidden for as long as you can, and only bring it out when you've scouted the entirety of the opponent's team or if you really have to absorb an attack or stop a sweeper. A good way to scout the opponent's team is to enlist U-turn abusers, such as Swellow, Scyther, or Primeape, on your team. When using Shedinja, Rapid Spin support is absolutely mandatory, as any entry hazard spells doom for it. Good users of Rapid Spin to pair with Shedinja include Hitmontop and Blastoise. Both have Foresight to ensure that Rapid Spin will execute properly, and both are relatively bulky so they can survive long enough to make sure that there are no entry hazards on the field when you do bring out Shedinja. Sandstorm and hail also cannot be in play, so either Rain Dance or Sunny Day support should be available if using Shedinja. Your team need not be centralized on the choice of weather, though they should be able to take advantage of it. Lanturn can make great use of Rain Dance and Moltres is fearsome with the sun shining.</p>

<p>Toxic and Will-O-Wisp are fatal if they come into contact with Shedinja when it isn't holding a Lum Berry, so having Pokemon to absorb these attacks is necessary. Venusaur and other Poison-types, Clefable, and Steel-types are immune to Toxic, while Arcanine and other Fire-types are immune to Will-O-Wisp. A Swords Dance-boosted Shadow Sneak will OHKO Mismagius and Rotom, but Spiritomb and Dusclops will both prove problematic, so having a teammate to eliminate them is essential. Flash Fire Houndoom is an incredible Pokemon to pair with Shedinja because they cover each other's weaknesses almost perfectly; Houndoom can switch into any Fire-, Ghost-, or Dark-type attack aimed at Shedinja, and can easily blast both Spiritomb and Dusclops into oblivion with its STAB attacks. Clefable is another great partner as it can switch into any status or Ghost-type attack without fear. Milotic, Slowbro, and Slowking are amazing partners for Shedinja as well because they can switch into Moltres, Arcanine, Rhyperior, and Aggron with near-impunity and drench them with a super effective STAB Surf. However, while Shedinja requires a lot of support, it does provide useful protection for a variety of Pokemon and those that can capitalize on its unique qualities are the best teammates for Shedinja. Rhyperior loves Shedinja's ability to burn physical attackers and absorb Water-, Fighting-, Grass-, Ice-, Steel-, and Ground-type attacks. In return, Rhyperior can switch into Rock-, Flying-, and most Fire-type attacks for Shedinja.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>There really isn't much else Shedinja can do. Life Orb and Substitute cannot be used, as the recoil from both will faint Shedinja. A Choice item + Trick set can be utilized, and can really mess with some of Shedinja's common counters such as Registeel that carry Shadow Claw, but Shedinja works much better with Swords Dance as an end-game sweeper. Shadow Claw is an alternative STAB move to Shadow Sneak, but Shedinja really wants priority to bypass its middling Speed. Aerial Ace is a nice move to put the hurt on Venusaur, Scyther, and Fighting-types, but there just isn't any room for it on the Swords Dance set. Shedinja is a good sleep absorber and can make use of Sleep Talk, but it can't use Rest. Finally, Toxic can be used instead of Will-O-Wisp, as it is a nice way to defeat Pokemon such as Milotic, but Shedinja's utility in burning physical attackers is too good to pass up.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Outside of entry hazards, poison, burn, Leech Seed, and damaging weather, Pursuit is the easiest way to dispose of Shedinja. Drapion, Absol, Skuntank, and Spiritomb are all good users of it, just be sure to avoid Will-O-Wisp when switching in (though the decreased Attack won't matter when facing Shedinja). Literally any Fire-, Rock-, Ghost-, Dark-, and Flying-type attack will KO Shedinja, it doesn't even need to be powerful, you just have to hit the husk. Finally, if all other options are exhausted, confusion is a great way to mess with Shedinja. However, if you lack any of the above options, the Shedinja user will win automatically unless you can somehow manage to PP stall it.</p>