[Overview]
<p>The shift to the DPP metagame was rather unkind to Solrock. While Solrock had some uses in OU during the glory days of RSE, it's lucky to find any use in NU today. It has a unique typing and a great ability, but its plethora of weaknesses to the most commonly used attacking types and below average defenses mean that it'll usually be KOed before accomplishing much on the battlefield. That may seem like a lot of bad news, but this shouldn't deter anyone from choosing Solrock, as it has access to a myriad of supporting and attacking moves, as well as a unique typing and ability that can offer useful resistances to fill specific niches in your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Rock Polish + Baton Pass
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Stone Edge / Rock Slide
move 4: Explosion / Earthquake
item: Leftovers / Liechi Berry
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 28 Def / 228 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>As an offensive Rock Polisher, Solrock is generally outclassed by the likes of Torterra and Aggron, so to differentiate itself, it can Baton Pass the boost to one of its teammates. This set is designed to actually take advantage of Solrock's many weaknesses; Solrock can lure out specific counters, use Rock Polish on the switch, and then proceed to Baton Pass to the appropriate teammate. The last two attacks allow Solrock to deal some damage off its decent base 95 Attack stat. Stone Edge is a stronger STAB attack, but Rock Slide can be used for its higher accuracy and chance to flinch after Solrock has used Rock Polish. Explosion is the primary option for the last slot to remove any problematic Pokemon you may encounter. Earthquake can be used in place of Explosion, which gives Solrock the great attacking combination of Rock and Ground, but with no Attack investment it'll be doing pitiful damage if it doesn't hit for super effective damage.</p>

[Additional Comments]
<p>The EVs are designed to allow Solrock to reach a Speed stat of 233, enough to just outpace max Speed Torterra. After a Rock Polish boost, he reaches a Speed stat of 466, enough to outpace Timid Choice Scarf Rotom. The rest of the EVs are placed into HP and Defense to give Solrock some bulk, and allow it to have a slight chance of surviving a Megahorn from Rhyperior.</p>

<p>Because of Solrock's many weaknesses, there is a plethora of potential teammates who can make use of Solrock's boosts while covering its weaknesses. Solrock tends to draw Water- and Grass-type attacks, especially from the two most-used Pokemon of UU, Milotic and Venusaur. So, any partner who can make use of the Speed boost Solrock provides while eliminating the aforementioned Pokemon makes a great teammate for Solrock. Life Orb Magmortar or offensive Venusaur can easily come in on Venusaur or Milotic, respectively, while boasting an increase to their average Speed thanks to the Baton Passed Rock Polish from Solrock. Drapion makes a good partner to Solrock, covering its Ghost-, Dark-, Bug- and Grass-type weaknesses and enjoying the Speed boosts it provides. As a bonus, Solrock can easily come in on any Ground-type attacks aimed at Drapion and start the cycle all over again. Some good examples of other Pokemon who appreciate Solrock's Rock Polishes include Azumarill, Octillery, Cradily, Hariyama, Medicham, and Moltres.</p>

<p>Substitute can go in the last slot to help Solrock in a number of ways. First and foremost, Substitute blocks any status attacks aimed at Solrock, particularly paralysis or burn. Secondly, Substitute protects Solrock from priority and protects its teammates from an attack as Solrock Baton Passes. Finally, Substitute can be used in succession to bring Solrock down to critical health to activate its pinch Berry in order to pass an additional boost to a teammate. Solrock isn't just limited to passing a Liechi Berry boost either; any of the pinch Berries make for a good replacement, depending on who Solrock Baton Passes to.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Explosion
move 3: Stealth Rock
move 4: Stone Edge / Zen Headbutt
item: Leftovers / Focus Sash
nature: Brave
EVs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Def
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>As a Trick Room user, Solrock offers a unique array of qualities that separate it from its fellow Trick Room-using brethren. Solrock's biggest advantage is its access to Explosion and Stealth Rock. With Explosion, Solrock is able to set up Trick Room, explode on whatever unfortunate Pokemon happens to be on the field, and allow a teammate to come in unscathed with three turns of Trick Room remaining. Stealth Rock is always useful to chip health off of the opposing team and make it easier for Solrock's teammates to garner KOs. The last slot is mostly filler. Stone Edge and Zen Headbutt are Solrock's strongest physical STAB attacks and the choice between them depends on your preference. Stone Edge has a higher Base Power, but it has lower accuracy and causes Solrock to be completely walled by Ground- and Steel-type Pokemon. Zen Headbutt grants Solrock more coverage but leaves him completely exposed to Steel-types and Spiritomb.</p>

[Additional Comments]
<p>When using Solrock, the main idea is to come in, set up Trick Room, and use Explosion as soon as possible to give the rest of the team time to abuse Trick Room. However, using Explosion blindly is not always the best course of action; in many cases, it will probably be better to use Stealth Rock and then switch to the appropriate teammate. If your team already has Stealth Rock support elsewhere, Earthquake can be used in its place to grant Solrock far greater coverage, allowing it to function as a sweeper.</p>

<p>Solrock makes an adequate lead, but suffers from the omnipresence of Taunt and has no way of stopping leads such as Omastar, Uxie, and Qwilfish from setting up entry hazards. However, using Solrock in the lead position can prove useful at times as Solrock is guaranteed to set up Trick Room if the opposing lead lacks Taunt. When being used as a lead, Focus Sash is the recommended item since it allows Solrock to survive any attack and set up Trick Room. With the EV spread listed, Solrock is never KOed by a combination of Ambipom's Fake Out and U-turn. Using Solrock in the lead position can also provide your team with Stealth Rock early in the game, while Explosion is useful for punching a hole in the opposing team right from the get-go.</p>

<p>Good teammates for Solrock include Pokemon who love Trick Room in play that also cover Solrock's many weaknesses well. Exeggutor and Slowbro can both set up Trick Room as well and absorb Grass- and Water-type attacks, respectively, that are aimed at Solrock. Porygon2 makes a good partner to Solrock, absorbing the Ghost-type attacks aimed at it and switching into Spiritomb with little trouble. Porygon2 is also neutral to Dark-type attacks, unique among Trick Room users, but is crippled by Taunt. Good sweepers to pair with Solrock include Azumarill, Hariyama, and Camerupt. Azumarill has no trouble switching into the Water-types Solrock will probably encounter and functions well both in and out of Trick Room thanks to Aqua Jet. Hariyama can switch into any Dark-type Solrock may encounter and hits hard with STAB Close Combat. Solrock loves Camerupt as a partner since Solrock can switch into Ground-type attacks aimed at Camerupt for free and set up Trick Room again.</p>

[Other Options]
<p>Solrock has a plethora of other support options, including Will-O-Wisp, Reflect, Light Screen, and Gravity, but is generally too frail to use any of them. Solrock can also pass Calm Mind and Cosmic Power boosts, but has a hard time doing so due to its many weaknesses and lack of Speed. A Choice Band set is possible, but Solrock has a limited movepool to work with and is outclassed by Rhyperior and Aggron thanks to their much higher bulk and Attack. Solrock also has Pain Split, but again, Solrock is neither bulky nor fast enough to make use of it. If using Solrock in the lead slot, Hidden Power Grass can be used in place of Stealth Rock to 2HKO Rhyperior, Omastar, and Kabutops, but has little use otherwise.</p>

[Checks and Counters]
<p>Solrock has six weaknesses to exploit, so bringing down the floating sun isn't a difficult task to accomplish. Bulky Water-types such as Milotic and Slowbro take pitiful damage from anything Solrock can dish out, bar Explosion, and easily KO Solrock with Surf. Registeel, Regirock, and Rhyperior take little damage from anything Solrock may use and enjoy Trick Room thanks to their low Speed. Spiritomb puts a good stop to either Solrock set; it is immune to Explosion and Zen Headbutt, benefits from Trick Room, and KOes Solrock with any of its moves. Spiritomb can even pick off Solrock with Shadow Sneak before it can Baton Pass out to its teammate. Venusaur can easily come in on either set and threaten Solrock with Leaf Storm or Energy Ball. Venusaur can even threaten Solrock's teammates with Sleep Powder on the Baton Pass if Solrock isn't protected by a Substitute.</p>