[Overview]

<p>Swellow is really, really fast. However, Swellow struggles early-game because the omnipresent Steel- and Rock-types can easily force it out and make it take repeated damage from Stealth Rock and potentially its status Orb. It's not all bad news though, the amazing Speed it has enables Swellow to become an excellent sweeper late-game, since it can outrun just about all of UU without a Speed boost. With STAB 140 Base Power Facade and Brave Bird added to the mix, Swellow becomes one of the premier threats in UU. Despite the fact that Swellow's movepool is very limited, it is more than made up for by Swellow's capability to hit hard and fast with what it has.</p>

[SET]
name: Guts
move 1: Facade
move 2: Brave Bird
move 3: U-turn / Pursuit
move 4: Quick Attack / Protect
item: Toxic Orb / Flame Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is designed to take advantage of Swellow's ability, Guts. Swellow is a fearsome sweeper late-game, with excellent Speed and access to strong STAB attacks. Thanks to Toxic Orb, Facade has 140 Base Power STAB attack, while Brave Bird allows you to hit the Ghost-types that Facade cannot. Brave Bird will 2HKO both Spiritomb and Rotom that don't invest heavily in Defense, as well as OHKO Mismagius. Protect is a great move if you decide to use Swellow as a lead or need a guaranteed turn to activate the status Orb late-game. It allows you to activate Guts without any risk and scout with a more powerful U-turn. Quick Attack, however, hits faster Pokemon, such as Electrode or a Choice Scarf Pokemon, and allows Swellow to revenge kill and activate Guts in one fell swoop. Pursuit can be useful for dealing with fleeing Mismagius, Rotom, and Chansey.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Toxic Orb does less damage to Swellow for the first two turns it is out, but on the third turn, it is tied with Flame Orb for total damage done. If you think you can keep Swellow in for more than three turns, you'll want to use Flame Orb, otherwise, use Toxic Orb. The EV spread is a simple spread to take advantage of Swellow's highest stats and maximize its ability to sweep.</p>

<p>This set is perfect for destroying teams late-game and taking care of the more fragile Pokemon in UU, but it is completely walled by Steel- and Rock-types. Swellow works great alongside Magneton, who can come in on Rock-, Electric-, and Ice-type attacks and trap Steel-types. Fire-types like Blaziken, Houndoom, Arcanine, and Magmortar can also force Steel-types out, but be careful not to switch any of the last three into a Rock-type attack aimed at Swellow. Nidoqueen and Nidoking can also scare away Rock-types with their powerful STAB. Defensively, a good partner to take out Rock-types for Swellow is Hitmontop, whose access to Intimidate will enable it to efficiently take the physical attacks directed at Swellow. Hitmontop also has access to Rapid Spin, which helps Swellow by removing Stealth Rock, thus increasing Swellow's survivability and viability in the late-game. Steel-types can come in on attacks directed at Swellow; perfect candidates for this job would be would be Steelix and Registeel. Steelix has a great typing which enables it to come in comfortably on Rock- and Electric-type attacks. Registeel is another option due to the tremendous bulk it has on both sides. Both of these Steel-types also set up Stealth Rock, which Swellow appreciates as a sweeper. Lastly, Dugtrio is a blessing for Swellow due to its exclusive ability to trap Rock- and Steel-types, and Swellow's U-turn used on the switch can safely bring Dugtrio in to trap and KO the opponent's Swellow check.</p>

[SET]
name: Life Orb
move 1: Return / Facade
move 2: Brave Bird
move 3: U-Turn
move 4: Quick Attack / Pursuit
item: Life Orb
ability: Guts
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set forgoes a status Orb for the power of a Life Orb and hope that it can switch in on Toxic or Will-O-Wisp to activate Guts. Swellow's main STAB options are Return and Facade. If you are sure you can come in on a status attack, then Facade is appealing for its higher power output; however, Return is more reliable and has a high Base Power regardless of whether you manage to switch into status or not. For example, Return OHKOes Manectric after Stealth Rock, whereas an unboosted Facade falls short. U-turn is to scout for incoming Steel- and Rock-types so that you can switch to an appropriate counter. Quick Attack is preferred in the last slot to hit Choice Scarf users, but Pursuit can be used to trap weakened Mismagius, Rotom, and Chansey.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>This set is walled by Steel- and Rock-types. Magneton traps Steel-types, while Fighting-types like Hitmontop threaten both Steel- and Rock-types, often causing them to switch out. Fire-types can also come in and force Steel-types to switch out, but double up on Swellow's Rock-type weakness. Blaziken is a good candidate because it has access to both STAB Fire- and Fighting-type moves to scare away Swellow's counters. Dugtrio can remove Steel- and Rock-types early in the match, allowing Swellow to sweep without issue later on.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A set consisting of Substitute, Baton Pass, Endeavor, and Return can be used with a pinch Berry of your choice, but this set leaves Swellow utterly exposed to priority moves, and with Return as its only attacking option, Swellow has little hope against Rock- , Ghost-, or Steel-types. Sleep Talk is an option to absorb sleep, but Facade does not get the boost it does from other status conditions, so Return is a more reliable move in this case. Steel Wing is another option to hit Rock-types, but it is too feeble to dent even the least defensive of Rock-types in UU. Roost can be used to replenish health, but Swellow will find little opportunity to use it with its low defensive stats, and will likely lose too much health from Stealth Rock, status, and Brave Bird recoil to make it useful.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As stated before, Swellow is walled by most Rock- and Steel-types. Aggron, Probopass, Steelix, Rhyperior, Relicanth, and Registeel are all good examples of counters. Ghost-types can come in on Normal-type attacks, but switching into Brave Bird will OHKO most of them and 2HKO even Rotom. Priority moves from the likes of Hitmontop, Hitmonlee, Azumarill, and Arcanine combined with residual damage can often KO Swellow thanks to its poor defenses and vulnerability to Stealth Rock. Speaking of Stealth Rock, it is one of the most reliable ways to break Swellow before it can even pose a threat to a team. If you can keep your Swellow hard counter, like Registeel, alive long enough to constantly switch into Swellow, the constant switching or U-turns Swellow suffers will break it simply by residual damage alone. Another good way to deal with Swellow is to pack a super effective attack on a Choice Scarf Pokemon. Rotom is especially useful in this role, as he can take one Brave Bird from Swellow thanks to its resistance to Flying-type attacks and OHKO back with Thunderbolt.</p>