[Overview]

<p>Weezing makes for a fantastic defensive Pokemon in UU, possessing useful resistances to Fighting, Grass, Poison, and Bug, an immunity to ubiquitous Ground-type attacks, and only a single uncommon weakness, all backed up by a sweet Defense stat. While his lacking Special Defense leaves him vulnerable to powerful STAB attacks from that end, he maintains the ability to switch in on a variety of threats and threaten them with his surprisingly large movepool. All in all, while Weezing may not be up to par with behemoths such as Skarmory or Hippowdon in OU, he has anchored himself as a top-tier wall down in the bright and ambitious little UU tier.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Sludge Bomb
move 4: Will-O-Wisp
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>By focusing entirely on Weezing's lower Special Defense stat and trusting on his naturally high Defense to be sufficient without additional investment, Weezing becomes an effective check to a variety of attackers, both special and physical. In particular, this set is notoriously effective at checking the versatile Venusaur; from Swords Dance to specially-based variants. With the given EV spread, Weezing takes no more than 43.7% from Venusaur's Life Orb Leaf Storm, while Power Whip does even less and can be weakened further by burning Venusaur with Will-O-Wisp. With an immunity to Spikes and a neutrality to Stealth Rock, Weezing can switch in and out without taking any major residual damage, which really helps him in taking Venusaur's assaults. Weezing can also fend off other Grass-types, such as Sceptile, in the same manner.</p>

<p>Even with the touched-up EV spread, Weezing is no slouch physically, having enough physical bulk to comfortably keep threats such as Torterra, Hitmonlee, Hitmontop, and Donphan at bay. Will-O-Wisp also somewhat balances this "loss" of physical bulk, allowing Weezing to burn overzealous physical attackers attempting to exploit this set's lack of investment in Defense. Sludge Bomb is Weezing's main attacking option, as it has STAB and hits many Pokemon for solid, neutral damage. It also has decent synergy with Will-O-Wisp; Steel-types, immune to Sludge Bomb, will find themselves fainting from Will-O-Wisp in a matter of turns if they lack a recovery move. Rest and Sleep Talk keep Weezing healthy while ensuring that he is not helpless while he is asleep, preventing him from being beaten by Sleep Powder Venusaur.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Pain Split is Weezing's other option for recovering lost HP, but it is generally inferior to RestTalk on this set; since Weezing's defenses will most likely be called upon very often, the need for a more reliable means of recovery is much higher. A Fire move such as Fire Blast or Flamethrower alongside Thunderbolt or Sludge Bomb can grant good coverage, but Weezing isn't trying to be offensive here (note the lack of investment), and would generally prefer the more dependable fruits of Will-O-Wisp or RestTalk.</p>

<p>Flash Fire users such as Arcanine, Houndoom, and Ninetales are the bane of this set, as they are more than able to comfortably switch into Will-O-Wisp and threaten Weezing with their deadly STAB moves. Milotic can patch up this issue, as its resistance to Fire, excellent defenses, and strong STAB Surf allow it to deal with the aforementioned threats. This two-man core is highly capable of dealing with many combinations of offensive threats, such as Venusaur (or Torterra) and Arcanine; however, Pokemon such as Mismagius and Alakazam can shred this tandem into pieces when played correctly. Using either Registeel or Spiritomb can resolve these issues nicely. While Registeel can add Stealth Rock to the mix, hampering Fire-types attempting to switch into Weezing, Spiritomb adds a valuable Psychic immunity, along with the ability to place Mismagius and Alakazam in a checkmate position with the threat of using either Pursuit or Shadow Sneak.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Flamethrower / Sludge Bomb
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Will-O-Wisp / Haze
move 4: Pain Split
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This Weezing is almost the definition of a full-stop to physical attackers in UU; with full investment in his Defense, even a Swords Danced Kabutops's Life Orb-boosted Stone Edge won't be able to bring him down, not even after Stealth Rock! Flamethrower and Thunderbolt form the core of Weezing's attacking moves here, granting super effective coverage on a great many physical attackers. Will-O-Wisp and Haze enhance Weezing's walling capabilities further by permanently crippling his opponents or clearing away any stat boosts they may have acquired, respectively. With only one moveslot left, Pain Split is used as a means of recovering off any damage sustained.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Fire Blast over Flamethrower is the same power vs. reliability argument that has come and gone through the generations. Most notably, Fire Blast will allow Weezing to 2HKO offensive Torterra, though its imperfect accuracy and low PP make it a lesser option in general, especially considering that Weezing will rarely need the extra power. Hidden Power Grass is another worthy attacking option, particularly for its ability to hit Rhyperior hard, but its power and coverage are otherwise lacking. Finally, RestTalk over Pain Split and Thunderbolt, with Sludge Bomb over Flamethrower for STAB, will grant Weezing greater survivability, but also cause him to lose out on important coverage.</p>

<p>With no investment to counteract Weezing's poor Special Defense this time around, special attackers will easily be making their mark on Weezing's hide. Therefore, a special wall such as Chansey or Registeel will be invaluable when using this Weezing. Most of these Pokemon also have a weakness to Fighting-type attacks, which Weezing can conveniently patch up. Chansey also has access to Wish, and can use it to make Weezing's endurance even more formidable. A Dark-type, such as Drapion and Skuntank, to deal with the Psychic-types that Weezing normally lures in is also useful. Finally, even when they're physical, Flash Fire users are the bane of Weezing's existence. Therefore, packing a Water-type, like Milotic, or a Flash Fire user of your own, like Houndoom, will help immensely.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A Choice Specs set actually has a lot of potential with Weezing, thanks to his surprisingly large special movepool. However, while Poison is a great defensive type, it's pretty terrible as an offensive type, dealing super effective damage to only one other type, being resisted by four, and being completely useless against Steel-types. Rain Dance is another promising option; as a supporter, Weezing is able to deal with the Grass-types that usually trouble a Rain Dance team, and can use the rain to weaken the Fire-type attacks he himself usually fears. Sunny Day is a reverse case, making Fire-types even harder to deal with, but giving Weezing an effective STAB on Fire-type moves. Destiny Bond and Memento are useful sacrificial options on Weezing, but he's too slow to make effective use of them. Explosion is another sacrificial move that lets Weezing literally blast any Pokemon that doesn't resist it into oblivion, and is particularly helpful for disposing of Clefable and Chansey, but Weezing is usually better off supporting the team, and Pain Split will do a number on both of the pudgy Normal-types anyway. Weezing gets access to Shadow Ball and Dark Pulse, which can help him smack Psychic-types on the switch-in. Toxic is another fun status move, but many of Weezing's typical switch-ins don't particularly care about being poisoned. Finally, Black Sludge can be used over Leftovers to mess up Trick users. Conversely, it will also mean that the Trick user will have another weapon to use against your team. Going physical on Weezing, even with Curse, is never a good idea, as, to put it lightly, Weezing's physical movepool is mind-numbingly awful.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Houndoom is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, threat to Weezing, due to its Flash Fire ability. Houndoom can easily switch into Will-O-Wisp or one of Weezing's Fire-type attacks to activate Flash Fire, giving it the perfect opportunity to set up Nasty Plot and rip giant holes through the opponent's team with insanely powerful Fire Blast attacks. Any Fire-type can give Weezing trouble since they resist Fire-type attacks and are immune to Will-O-Wisp, but Houndoom remains on the top of the list. Any Pokemon with a decent Special Attack stat and access to a Psychic-type attack will always give Weezing a ton of trouble because of its low Special Defense. Chansey doesn't care if it switches into a Will-O-Wisp because of Natural Cure and can easily stall out Weezing or cripple it with Thunder Wave. Pain Split can become extremely annoying, though. RestTalkers will have fun switching into Weezing since they can cure burn status and give Weezing a ton of trouble to harm them. RestTalkers that pack a boosting move and decent Special Defense, like Poliwrath, are most effective. The only downside to using a RestTalker that packs a boosting move is if Weezing carries Haze.</p>