[Overview]

<p>With passable offense, decent bulk, and access to key moves like Dragon Dance, Whiscash is a perfect example of an underrated threat of UU. Although Whiscash seems to be outclassed by Feraligatr in an offensive role, it has some advantages, including its significantly larger special bulk and Ground typing. Similarly, it has advantages over Quagsire and Gastrodon due to the fact that it can play a much more offensive role than those two are capable of. Given a significant amount of support from its teammates, along with an opportunity to set up, Whiscash can be a fearsome offensive threat that is capable of plowing through well-built teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Waterfall / Aqua Tail
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Bounce / Stone Edge
item: Life Orb
ability: Anticipation
nature: Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Due to Whiscash's great offensive typing and acceptable movepool, it can effectively utilize Dragon Dance in order to sweep. After a Dragon Dance, Whiscash reaches 328 Speed, allowing it to outspeed up to positive-natured base 100 Speed Pokemon such as Miltank, Houndoom, and Drapion. Waterfall is advised as the main STAB attack because of its reliability, although if you prefer the extra power, Aqua Tail can be used at the cost of lower accuracy. Earthquake is the secondary STAB move, as it is able to dent foes like Milotic and Slowbro, while also having decent coverage with Whiscash's Water-type STAB. Bounce is recommended in the final slot as it allows Whiscash to deal with Grass-types that would otherwise wall this set, although Stone Edge can be utilized if you want Whiscash to hit Flying-types such as Altaria and Scyther for super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is standard for a physical sweeper, and it lets Whiscash just barely outspeed base 100 Speed Pokemon after a boost and with an Adamant nature. Whiscash really needs the Adamant nature, since its Attack stat is otherwise unimpressive, even when boosted. In order to give Whiscash that much more oomph with its attacks, a Life Orb is equipped. Since Whiscash really won't be tanking hits very well anyway, the recoil is no big deal.</p>

<p>Entry hazard support is extremely useful for Whiscash, as said support will help it dent foes more heavily while also getting KOs on certain Pokemon if they have taken previous damage. Similarly, dual screens support is a good idea to use on your team as it will help Whiscash set up much more easily on a wider array of opposing Pokemon. In addition, including Pokemon that can deal with bulky Water- and Grass-types, Whiscash's number one counters, is a great idea as they will allow Whiscash to more efficiently execute its sweep. Defensive variants of Moltres and Arcanine are great Pokemon to help deal with Grass-types, while Venusaur and Sceptile can help with bulky Water-types like Milotic. Finally, including a Pokemon that can take status is useful, as status conditions will sink Whiscash's already unsteady ship. RestTalk Arcanine is a great example of a Pokemon that can perform this role sufficiently while also hitting those Grass-types hard.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Outside of Dragon Dance, Whiscash's uses on a team are limited. A Choice Band set can be utilized to transform Whiscash into a decent wallbreaker, although even with the Choice Band boost, Whiscash is noticeably weak, so this route is not recommended. A special set consisting of Hydro Pump, Earth Power, Ice Beam, and Hidden Power Grass can be used, but due to Whiscash's lackluster Special Attack stat, this is gimmicky at best. Rock Slide can be used over Stone Edge if you prefer the extra accuracy over power. Also, Zen Headbutt can be used to hit Venusaur for super effective damage, although it fails against other Grass-types. Lastly, Substitute can help stop status problems, one of Whiscash's greatest concerns.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Several Pokemon can threaten Whiscash but the foremost problems are bulky Grass- and Water-types, both of which take almost nothing from Whiscash's attacks and can KO back with a super effective Grass-type attack or stall him out, respectively. Tangrowth, Venusaur, and Milotic are excellent examples of such Pokemon due to their natural bulk and decent offensive prowess; Sceptile is also a great counter since it can outpace even a Speed-boosted Whiscash and KO with a Grass-type attack. Moving on, physical tanks carrying Will-O-Wisp screw Whiscash over; both Weezing and Defensive Mismagius with max Speed are prime examples of this. Weezing can remove all stat-ups via Haze while Mismagius can outspeed Speed-boosted Whiscash and cripple it with Will-O-Wisp.</p>