[Overview]

<p>While Yanma may seem harmless at first glance, it can actually deal quite some damage, having the ability to 2HKO many common leads in UU. Yanma has two great abilities in Compoundeyes and Speed Boost, increasing the accuracy of its moves and raising Yanma's Speed every turn, respectively. After two boosts to its Speed, Yanma is capable of outspeeding everything in UU. Yanma also has access to Bug Buzz and Air Slash, two reliable STAB options with good coverage in UU, as well as a useful support move in Hypnosis, which has its accuracy issues alleviated somewhat by Compoundeyes. Yanma does have its fair share of drawbacks despite these many advantages, mainly its paper-thin defenses and relatively shallow movepool. Also, Yanma's all around awful typing makes it 4x weak to the ever present Stealth Rock, pounding one more nail into its coffin. Nonetheless, Yanma is a very unique Pokemon who can be a real asset to a team that is designed to support it appropriately. </p>

[SET]
name: Attacking Lead
move 1: Bug Buzz
move 2: Air Slash
move 3: Protect / Hidden Power Ground
move 4: Hypnosis 
item: Focus Sash
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the only set Yanma can run without being harshly outclassed by another Pokemon in UU. Bug Buzz and Air Slash provide Yanma with two powerful STAB moves that hit Pokemon that don't resist them for solid damage. Air Slash also has a 30% flinch chance, which can come in handy once in a while. Protect allows Yanma to scout, beat Fake Out leads such as Ambipom, and gain a free boost of Speed if Speed Boost is the chosen ability. Hidden Power Ground is also an option, allowing Yanma to defeat Aggron, who would otherwise wall it, and hits Registeel and Regirock for at least super effective damage. Hypnosis is important so that Yanma can incapacitate a Pokemon that it cannot defeat directly. As for the choice of ability, Compoundeyes is very useful, increasing the accuracy of Hypnosis from 60% to 78% and Air Slash to perfect accuracy. Speed Boost is still a great ability, though, allowing Yanma to outspeed most Pokemon after just one turn, and defeat them before they can retaliate.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Yanma's EV spread allows it to hit as hard as possible, while outrunning most common UU leads. The remaining 4 Defense EVs are filler, and even with the extra point in Defense, Yanma isn't able to stand up to even powerful neutral hits. Spiritomb is a major issue for Yanma, as it's able to take all of Yanma's attacks with ease and retaliate with a powerful STAB attack, such as Pursuit.</p>

<p>Some common leads that Yanma can outspeed and put to sleep include Mesprit, Qwilfish, Cloyster, and most Uxie. Against faster leads such as Scyther, Yanma should use Hypnosis to incapacitate it before proceeding to attack. Focus Sash protects Yanma from being OHKOed, so you needn't worry about Yanma's well-being before it can successfully sleep the opposing lead. Alternatively, Yanma can use Protect to stall out a turn if packing Speed Boost, after which it can use Hypnosis without fear of sustaining major damage. Against faster leads who may Taunt Yanma, such as Mismagius, Yanma should switch out immediately to a counter. Unless Yanma can OHKO or 2HKO the opposing lead, Yanma should first use Hypnosis to severely cripple it. After the other lead has been incapacitated, Yanma can proceed to batter the opponent's team with its powerful attacks.</p>

<p>Chansey and Clefable are good teammates for Yanma, as both are capable of outspeeding Spiritomb and able to take it on with Toxic. Chansey is also able to set up Stealth Rock, which is very helpful for an offensive Pokemon such as Yanma. Hitmontop is an excellent teammate because of its access to Rapid Spin, which is able to rid your side of the field of Stealth Rock, giving Yanma the much needed ability to switch in repeatedly. Hitmontop can also defeat Pokemon that trouble Yanma, such as the special walls Chansey and Registeel. Finally, Milotic makes a great partner as it can switch into most Fire-types and Rhyperior with ease and threaten them out with STAB Surf. In return, Yanma can switch into Choice-locked Grass-type attacks aimed at Milotic.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>U-turn is a decent option to consider, though given Yanma's vulnerability to Stealth Rock, it's not recommended. Psychic and Shadow Ball are alternate attacking options that offer good coverage, but are quite weak unless they manage to score super effective damage on an opposing Pokemon. AncientPower enables Yanma to almost assuredly OHKO Moltres, which is otherwise only 3HKOed by Air Slash, when run with a Modest nature. Lastly, Quick Attack can be used for picking off Focus Sash users that are faster than Yanma, though it should only be used in tandem with Compoundeyes, as it is a redundant move alongside Speed Boost.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Spiritomb is a great counter to Yanma because it can take any attack Yanma typically uses, can set up on it with Calm Mind, and with a RestTalk setup can take Hypnosis with ease. Spiritomb also has decent offensive stats, and with Yanma's frail defenses, it isn't hard for Spiritomb to remove Yanma from the battle with a timely Shadow Ball or Pursuit. Chansey and Registeel are also issues for Yanma with their impressive special bulk and ability to set up Stealth Rock, making sure Yanma will not be coming back into play safely. Both of the aforementioned Pokemon can also slowly wear Yanma down with Seismic Toss, or cripple it outright with Thunder Wave. Other than the above threats, Sleep Talk Pokemon or those with Insomnia and respectable bulk can counter Yanma. Any Pokemon that can take a hit from Yanma and strike back with a powerful STAB move will usually be able to defeat it once Sleep Clause has been activated.</p>