[Overview]

<p>When looking at Anorith's stats, the first thing that one notices is its beastly base 95 Attack, one of the highest in LC. It also has a base 75 Speed, which allows it to hit 18 maximum, outspeeding the likes of Mienfoo, Chinchou, and Drilbur, and it has good attacking options such as Rock Blast and X-Scissor. It also has access to Rapid Spin and Knock Off, allowing it to support its teammates, in addition to being an excellent user of Stealth Rock. Unfortunately, the little Bug-type has some cons. Its defenses are only average, meaning it can't take a lot of hits, and this problem is compounded even further by the fact that it lacks reliable recovery. Its typing only resists Poison- and Normal-type moves and is neutral to Ground-, Flying-, and Fire-type moves, so it takes a lot of damage from high-powered moves such as Brave Bird, Blizzard, and Earthquake. Another problem is Anorith's lack of coverage, making it unable to hit Fighting-types such as Mienfoo, Timburr, and Croagunk super effectively. All in all, Anorith is a Pokemon that definitely has some downsides, but can be really good if you manage to use it correctly.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Stealth Rock
move 4: X-Scissor
move 3: Knock Off / Rock Blast
item: Eviolite
ability: Shell Armor
nature: Jolly
evs: 36 HP / 236 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set manages to use all of Anorith's perks in one moveset, mainly keeping a good offensive presence while also being able to support its team with Knock Off and Stealth Rock. Rapid Spin is one of the most useful moves in Little Cup, allowing teammates such as Snover and Murkrow to switch in without having their health stripped away. Anorith is one of its better users, mainly due to the fact that it can outspeed and 2HKO Drilbur with X-Scissor while threatening Lileep without a boost, a rare feat in the tier. Speaking of X-Scissor, it's one of Anorith's best moves, and is its most powerful STAB move (excluding four- and five-hit Rock Blast). Stealth Rock is always good to have, and makes defeating Pokemon such as Larvesta and Murkrow easier. Knock Off is the preferred option in the last moveslot, as it can potentially remove an Eviolite from one of the opponent's Pokemon: this is particularly useful to use against Fighting-types such as Mienfoo or Croagunk, as they like to switch in Anorith. Rock Blast is an option too, allowing Anorith to beat Misdreavus more easily.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Attack and Speed, while the remaining EVs are placed in HP to tank hits better. A Jolly nature places it at an 18 Speed stat, allowing it to outspeed the large array of Pokemon hitting 17 Speed, such as Mienfoo, Drilbur, Natu, and Chinchou. Anorith pairs well with setup sweepers such as Scraggy, as it lures in Fighting-types and Foongus and can cripple them with Knock Off, allowing Scraggy to sweep more easily.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A standalone Swords Dance set is a viable option, as it boosts Anorith's attack to a whopping 38. However, it's easily revenge killed, and is still walled to hell and back by Mienfoo. Brick Break can be used to hit Steel-types, but it's rather weak, and most of them are hit neutrally by X-Scissor already, examples being Ferroseed and Bronzor. A Rock Polish set seems like a good idea on paper, but Anorith is way too weak and is easily revenge killed. Toxic could be used to cripple Porygon, but Knock Off is usually better. Aerial Ace could be used against Fighting-types, but it doesn't hit much outside of them and is really weak. Curse is a decent setup move, but one of Anorith's main perks is its Speed, so Curse cripples it more than anything else. Swift Swim can be used in conjunction with Swords Dance if you're using a rain team, although Anorith doesn't learn Rain Dance.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fighting-types are easily the best counters to Anorith, as they resist both of its STAB types. Mienfoo is the best one of the lot, having access to Drain Punch to 3HKO Anorith and Regenerator to recover any health lost in the process. However, it should watch out for Knock Off. Steel-types such as Magnemite don't fear Anorith's attacks and can KO it with their STAB moves; however, they should be careful, in case Anorith knows Brick Break. Misdreavus can easily set up on Anorith if the latter doesn't have Rock Blast, especially if the former carries Substitute. Staryu can easily switch into Anorith, OHKO with Hydro Pump, and spin away Stealth Rock. Hippopotas is not afraid to set up Stealth Rock on Anorith, as its gargantuan defenses can tank anything Anorith can throw at it, even after a Knock Off, and it is strong enough to 2HKO Anorith with Earthquake.</p>