[Overview]

<p>At a glance, Aron seems to be a generic Rock-type Pokemon, with a great Defense stat and a good Attack stat. However, a closer look at Aron reveals that it has access to the combo of STAB Head Smash and the Rock Head ability, allowing it to do enormous amounts of damage without taking recoil. It also sports an impressive nine resistances and one immunity, making it very easy to switch in and start wrecking havoc. Nonetheless, the tiny iron Pokemon is not without its flaws. The current metagame is crawling with Fighting-type Pokemon, all of which can quickly dispose of Aron. In addition to this, Aron's abysmal Speed stat means it will be easily revenge killed by faster Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Rock Polish
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Head Smash
move 3: Iron Head
move 4: Earthquake
item: Life Orb
ability: Rock Head
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 196 Atk / 116 SpD / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is Aron's best shot at sweeping. Aron's horrible Speed stat significantly limits its sweeping potential, and Rock Polish is a great solution to this problem. After a single Rock Polish, Aron hits 26 Speed assuming a Jolly nature, outspeeding all unboosted Pokemon in Little Cup while getting the jump on Choice Scarf users with up to 17 Speed. This turns Aron into a formidable late-game sweeper. Sadly, setting up a Rock Polish is not easily accomplished because of the plethora of Fighting-types running around. Thanks to Aron's many resistances, though, it is possible with the correct team support. Head Smash is what makes Aron so dangerous, as it seriously dents anything that doesn't resist it. Iron Head is used for secondary STAB and has decent neutral coverage with Head Smash. Earthquake rounds out the coverage nicely, hitting any Steel-types except Bronzor.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is needed to do as much damage as possible, as Aron has no way to boost its Attack on this set. The EV spread maxes out Attack and Speed, while the rest of the EVs are dumped into Special Defense. A Jolly nature is preferred over Adamant, so Aron can outspeed Choice Scarf users with up to 17 Speed, such as Chinchou. However, Adamant is an option as Aron will still be able to outspeed every unboosted Pokemon in the metagame. Bulky walls such as Ferroseed take little damage from any of Aron's attacks, so they must be removed before Aron attempts to set up. Fighting-types are also very threatening to Aron, most notably Timburr, which has priority Mach Punch. Natu is a great partner for Aron because it can eliminate most Fighting-types bar Scraggy. Natu can also set up dual screens, helping Aron to set up more easily. Magnemite can get rid of many walls, including Bronzor, Ferroseed, and Slowpoke. A Fighting-type of your own, such as Scraggy, can lure out Flying-types such as Taillow for Aron to use as setup fodder.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Head Smash
move 2: Iron Head
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Superpower
item: Choice Band
ability: Rock Head
nature: Adamant
evs: 196 Atk / 116 SpD / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a Choice Band equipped, Aron becomes an immediate threat, boasting an Attack stat of 26 and a STAB 150 Base Power attack in Head Smash. The power of this set allows Aron to 2HKO almost everything in the tier, making it extremely hard to check. However, because this set trades Speed for power, Aron must be wary of any Pokemon faster than it, or else it will be revenge killed rather quickly. Head Smash has the sheer power and ability to break through many walls that Aron would usually have trouble with, such as Slowpoke. Iron Head, while not as powerful as Head Smash, still hits hard and is able to hit any Fighting- or Ground-types that resist Head Smash. Earthquake has great coverage with Head Smash and Iron Head, OHKOing most, if not all, Steel-types. Superpower is mainly on this set for its ability to hit Bronzor and Ferroseed, which otherwise wall this set. Still, Bronzor only takes a maximum of 40% from Superpower, so packing another Pokemon to beat Bronzor is recommended.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is the same as the above set. The Speed EVs allow Aron to hit 12 Speed, which isn't fast at all, but it allows Aron to outspeed many walls such as Frillish and Slowpoke. Max Attack is for as much power as possible, and the remaining EVs are used to increase Aron's mediocre Special Defense. Thunder Wave support is helpful, because it allows Aron to outspeed and KO Pokemon that usually are able to OHKO it first, such as Gastly. Natu is still a great partner for Aron for the same reasons as before: it can defeat most Fighting-types. Wynaut can dispose of Choice Scarf users and other fast Pokemon. Entry hazard support is also greatly appreciated, but no significant OHKOs result from Stealth Rock or one layer of Spikes.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Aron can run other sets, but they are generally outclassed by other Pokemon, or they are just too gimmicky. Stealth Rock and Roar along with the ability Sturdy can be used to make a decent lead set, but Dwebble does a much better job as a lead because it also has access to Spikes, and it's faster. A Hone Claws set can be used to boost Aron's Attack, but Aron will find it hard to set up. Also, Aron will be much too slow to sweep without a Speed boost. A defensive set with Eviolite can be used, but Aron has too many common weaknesses to be an effective tank. Metal Burst and Sturdy is an option to bait Fighting-types and OHKO them, but after Aron succeeds at doing this it's basically death fodder for the rest of the match. Iron Tail can be used on any of the sets listed above for more power instead of Iron Head, but the 75% accuracy is very unappealing. Aron can also utilize Magnet Rise to avoid Ground-type attacks, but it's not worth the turn it takes to set up. Even with Magnet Rise in effect, Aron still has two other common weaknesses.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Countering Aron is simple because of its common weaknesses. Any Fighting-type such as Mienfoo, Scraggy, or Timburr can OHKO Aron, assuming Sturdy is not in play. Bronzor, Slowpoke, and Hippopotas can wall Aron most of the time, but Slowpoke must be careful of Choice Band Aron. Priority moves including Mach Punch and Aqua Jet will leave a huge dent in Aron, if not KO it. Any Pokemon that can outspeed Aron and hit it with a super effective attack, such as Staryu, will beat it.</p>