[Overview]

<p>One glance at its fearsome tusks and red irises will tell you that Axew is one vicious little dragon. There was once a time when Axew was outclassed by other Dragon Dance users such as Dratini and Scraggy, but that time is long in the past, as Black and White 2 bestowed upon it gifts from the move tutors: Aqua Tail and Superpower. This means that coverage issues can no longer restrain this majestic beast. Base 87 Attack is what makes Axew truly formidable, as it is able to reach dizzying power levels when paired with Dragon Dance, which also boosts its less impressive base 57 Speed to respectable levels.</p> 

<p>Alas, even mighty warriors like Axew have weaknesses. 46 / 60 / 40 defenses are far from impressive, though Eviolite can mitigate this somewhat. Its typing, though a blessing offensively, leaves it vulnerable to Ice-type attacks and the dreaded priority Ice Shard. Furthermore, despite the new toys it received from the move tutors, Axew finds itself walled by some Steel-types, especially if it lacks Superpower. Bulky Fighting-types also lurk in the shadows with the potential to ruin Axew's day with their ability to take hits and retaliate with powerful attacks. Its flaws, however, can be covered by its fantastic sweeping capabilities; with the right support, it can ravage unprepared teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Dragon Dance
move 1: Dragon Dance
move 2: Outrage
move 3: Aqua Tail
move 4: Dragon Claw / Superpower
item: Eviolite
ability: Mold Breaker
nature: Jolly
evs: 68 HP / 220 Atk / 220 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Dragon Dance is a move that Axew utilizes superbly. The goal of this set is simple: switch in after a teammate has been felled or on a resisted attack, then Dragon Dance to turn Axew into into a killing machine. After a Dragon Dance, Axew reaches a bone-crushing Attack of 27, and its Speed reaches a relatively nimble 24, meaning it can outspeed the entirety of the unboosted metagame and even some slower Choice Scarf Pokemon, such as Snover. Once boosted, there is little that can face up to the wrath of Axew; it is both faster and more powerful, stat-wise, than Dratini and Scraggy.</p> 

<p>Outrage serves as the obligatory Dragon-type STAB. It boasts a monstrous 120 Base Power, meaning it will demolish enemies that do not resist it even before a boost. Aqua Tail provides fantastic coverage for Axew, hitting threats like Hippopotas for super effective damage and allowing Axew to attack without locking itself into Outrage. The move used in the last slot can vary depending on user preference. Dragon Claw is to negate the side effect of Outrage in exchange for less power. Superpower can be used to scout a potential switch-in, paving the way for Axew to ravage the opponent's team later in the game. However, the subsequent Attack drop can often be detrimental to Axew's sweep, and, to a lesser extent, so can the fall in Defense.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Eviolite is the preferred item for Axew, as it provides a much needed buff to bulk to ease setup and take priority hits with more conviction once it has done so. However, Life Orb could also be used if one wants to obliterate foes with even more power, though Life Orb Axew often finds its sweeps cut short by priority. The EV spread provides maximum Speed and power while the rest is invested into HP to improve bulk. Jolly is used so Axew can get the jump on Magnemite, Scraggy, and Dratini, three threats that have the potential to prevent Axew's sweep before it has even begun. Other options for the last slot include Taunt and Protect. Taunt provides a setup opportunity and a means to avoid getting blighted by status, something Axew must avoid. Protect is to fend off the omnipresent Fake Out.</p>

<p>However mighty Axew seems, it is always helpful to have team support backing its sweep. Entry hazards from Dwebble or Omanyte can turn many 2HKOs into OHKOs, which Axew greatly appreciates. If it lacks Superpower, Axew finds itself walled by Steel-types, so Magnemite makes a great partner, as not only can it trap Steel-types and eliminate them with a swift Hidden Power Fire, but it can also take Ice- and Dragon-type attacks aimed at Axew, as well as bait Fire-type attacks that Axew can set up on. Bronzor is in a similar boat to Magnemite, but can also set up Stealth Rock and screens to aid Axew's sweep. Another Dragon Dance user that can capitalize on the holes that Axew punches in the opponent's team and vice versa is also good idea as a teammate. Scraggy in particular has the ability to clean up the mess that Axew leaves behind, as it can defeat the Steel-types that have the bulk to survive Axew's Outrage. This set hates Toxic Spikes, so a Rapid Spin user or grounded Poison-type is appreciated. Tentacool fits both of these roles quite well, while also providing decent synergy with Axew and the ability to set up Toxic Spikes of its own.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Dragon Claw
move 2: Superpower
move 3: Aqua Tail
move 4: Outrage
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Mold Breaker
nature: Jolly
evs: 68 HP / 220 Atk / 220 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Choice Scarf turns Axew from a deadly sweeper into a just-as-deadly revenge killer, able to come in after a teammate has perished and avenge its fallen ally. A Speed stat of 24 when equipped with a Choice Scarf is nothing to scoff at, and along with Axew's Attack stat of 18, picking off weakened foes becomes child's play. Dragon Claw is the preference of STAB this time, as a Choice set likes being locked into Outrage even less than the Dragon Dance variant. Superpower allows Axew to deal with many Pokemon that would otherwise give it trouble, such as Lileep and Ferroseed, scoring a nice super effective hit on them. Aqua Tail hits Hippopotas slightly harder than its Dragon-type STAB attacks, as well as scoring a super effective hit on the many Fire-types that plague the tier such as Houndour and Larvesta. Outrage, Axew's most powerful option, can be used when there is nothing left on the opponent's team to take a hit or outspeed Axew, allowing it to also function as a competent late-game cleaner or to smash a bulky check as it comes in so that Axew can pave the way for a sweep for a teammate.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Speed and power with the rest put into HP to provide a buffer for some weaker hits. Jolly is favorable over Adamant, as it means Axew can outspeed Choice Scarf Magnemite and other boosted threats, like +1 Scraggy. It should be noted that this Axew is much more frail than its Dragon Dancing counterpart, as it does not have Eviolite to increase its bulk. This Axew relies on hitting fast and hard to avoid taking hits. X-Scissor could be used to get a super effective hit on Lileep without the negative side effect of Superpower, as well as getting a super effective hit on other Grass-types like Shroomish, but it is generally an inferior option, as the coverage or power provided by the other moves on the set make better choices. Dual Chop has some advantages over Dragon Claw, as it enables Axew to break Substitutes of Misdreavus and Murkrow and then continue to follow up with damage. It can also break the Focus Sash of Pokemon like Abra, but the 10% accuracy drop can lead to Axew's demise, so use this move with caution.</p>

<p>Teammates that can take hits for Axew are appreciated. Magnemite and Bronzor are notable for their bulk and resistances to both of Axew's weaknesses. The former is great at trapping and removing Axew's counters, while the latter is particularly helpful for its ability to set up Stealth Rock. This Axew also appreciates Rapid Spin support, as it will be switching in and out more often than the Dragon Dance set. Staryu is a notable spinner, as Axew synergizes with Staryu quite well, resisting both of its weaknesses. Tentacool is in a similar boat, but is also able to set up Toxic Spikes, which can help break down some bulkier walls for Axew to smash through.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>Axew has a few other options up its sleeve that have similar functions to its already existing sets. Night Slash scores a super effective hit on Misdreavus and other bulky Ghost-types that can give Axew trouble, though a STAB Outrage will often do similar damage and Night Slash has poor coverage alongside Axew's Dragon-type STAB. A more bulky Dragon Dance set could be used to accumulate more than one boost, but this is somewhat outclassed by Dratini, which can use Rest for recovery to less detrimental effect due to Shed Skin. Life Orb or Choice Band give Axew more immediate power, but the bulk provided by Eviolite is normally a superior option, as it gives Axew an easier time setting up and allows it to take priority easier once it has done so. Swords Dance seems like a good option at first, but Axew's slightly disappointing Speed and lack of priority means that Axew will hardly ever sweep. A double dance set with could be used to help Axew overcome some normal counters, though it will not usually find the time to set up twice. Rivalry is an interesting option, as many Pokemon that Axew could not break through before could be beaten if that Pokemon is the same gender. However, this could also work conversely, meaning Axew will often just miss out on a kill that it would otherwise achieve, and thus it is usually not worth the risk. Unnerve would have been good in Generation 4, but Generation 5 introduced Eviolite, so Oran Berry, a previous staple on Little Cup teams, has been shunned somewhat.</p> 

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bronzor is the best counter to Axew, as it resists its Dragon-type STAB and has a neutrality to  Superpower, thanks to its secondary Psychic typing. A +1 Aqua Tail only does 32-40%, while Bronzor can use Toxic and then stall with Protect and Rest, putting a timer on Axew's sweep. Other Steel-types such as Magnemite and Pawniard can wall Axew that are locked into Outrage or that lack Superpower and retaliate with powerful STABs, or, in the case of the latter, set up Swords Dance to become a very dangerous threat. Some Fighting-types like bulky Mienfoo and Riolu act as decent checks, as they can both just about take a +1 Outrage. Mienfoo can Fake Out and then Drain Punch, scoring good damage on Axew, then switch out to recover some of the damage done. If Axew last used Outrage, Riolu can use Copycat, which, due to Prankster, allows it to move before Axew and hit it for 72-90%, picking it off if it has taken some prior damage. Timburr can also take a +1 Outrage and heavily damage Axew with a combination of Drain Punch and then priority Mach Punch. Other priority users can really hinder Axew, despite the defense boost provided by Eviolite. A Sucker Punch coming from a Life Orb Murkrow does 54-72%, and an Ice Shard from Choice Scarf Snover does 36-54%, so both have the potential to KO Axew if it has been weakened. Finally, faster users of Choice Scarf, such as Mienfoo and Abra, can outspeed Axew and crush it with their powerful STAB attacks.</p>