[Overview]

<p>When one thinks of Bidoof, the first thoughts that come to mind are generally "HM Slave" and "Derp." Surprisingly, Bidoof is able to move beyond those sentiments and be useful in Little Cup. Its only niche lies in its ability, Simple, which doubles stat boosts or drops. With this ability, Bidoof is able to use Curse, Work Up, and even Charge Beam to boost quickly. However, it's not all good news. Bidoof is unfortunately cursed with a Normal typing in a tier where every team has a Fighting-type. Likewise, its low defenses give it difficulty setting up. Nonetheless, Bidoof can prove to be a very valuable member of your team, provided you give it the proper support.</p>

[SET]
name: Curse
move 1: Curse
move 2: Return
move 3: Aqua Tail
move 4: Quick Attack
item: Eviolite
ability: Simple
nature: Adamant
evs: 204 HP / 236 Atk / 36 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The purpose of this set is to take advantage of Simple to receive +2 Attack and Defense from a single Curse. Return is the main STAB move on the set. Aqua Tail is used for coverage, only missing out on Frillish, Lileep, and Ferroseed. Unfortunately, due to Simple, Curse reduces Bidoof's Speed by two stages. Bidoof has access to STAB Quick Attack, though, mitigating the Speed drops somewhat.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs maximize Bidoof's HP, so when combined with Eviolite, it will be able to take hits. The rest maximize Attack and give it a boost in Defense, allowing it to reach an impressive 28 Attack and 22 Defense after a single Curse. This set appreciates entry hazard support, as it wears down the opponent's team and makes it significantly easier to acquire boosts. Likewise, because of the popularity of Fighting-type Pokemon, it is recommended to run dual screen support. That way, Bidoof will have a much easier time setting up.</p>

<p>Unfortunately, it is rather hard to set up with Curse when Pokemon such as Mienfoo, Scraggy, Croagunk, and Timburr are so common. These Pokemon threaten Bidoof with their super effective STAB attacks, forcing it out before it can boost. Likewise, Ferroseed, Frillish, and Lileep are able to take on this set, as they resist or are immune to every move it carries. Accordingly, this set appreciates partners that are able to take care of these Pokemon. Mixed Houndour, for example, is able to OHKO Ferroseed with Fire Blast and 2HKO Frillish with Crunch. Special Snover, with Blizzard, Giga Drain, and Hidden Power Fire, is also able to take out these Pokemon. Fighting-type Pokemon such as Mienfoo and Croagunk make good partners as well, as they can check Ferroseed, Lileep, and opposing Fighting-type Pokemon that give Bidoof a difficult time. Choice Scarf Flying-type Pokemon such as Taillow threaten Fighting-type Pokemon with Brave Bird. Gastly and Abra make good partners for the same reason. Gastly can also take care of Slowpoke, which doesn't take much from this set due to its high Defense. Special attackers that are immune to or resist Quick Attack, such as Gastly and Drifloon, also give this set problems, as they can outspeed and kill Bidoof. Partners, such as Stunky, that can take care of Ghost-type Pokemon are helpful to deal with these threats.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Because Bidoof's movepool is as large as its teeth, it has many other options available. Charge Beam gives Bidoof a 70% chance of obtaining a +2 boost to Special Attack, making its Special Attack stat somewhat viable. Likewise, it can use its other ability, Unaware, to ignore stat boosters. Unfortunately, as the most common stat booster is Scraggy, Unaware isn't a very useful ability on Bidoof. Its other moves also allow it to threaten specific Pokemon. Superpower hits Scraggy hard, and Shadow Ball hits Gastly and Frillish for super effective damage. Hidden Power Fire can be used for Ferroseed. Unfortunately, the lack of Water / Normal coverage when using any of these moves hurts. Likewise, Bidoof has an excellent support movepool. With access to Yawn and Thunder Wave, it can support the team by inflicting status on opponents. Bidoof also has the ability to lay Stealth Rock. As amusing as that is, it's generally an option best left for another teammate. Bidoof also has access to Work Up, meaning a mixed set is viable as Simple means it grants +2 in both Attack and Special Attack. Unfortunately, a sweep is difficult to pull off due to Bidoof's low Speed and unboosted defenses.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Unfortunately for Bidoof, there are many Pokemon that fare well against it. Frillish, Ferroseed, and Lileep resist or are immune to Water- and Normal-type attacks, letting them handle Bidoof's entire set. Likewise, Fighting-type Pokemon give Bidoof a hard time, as their attacks will do a lot of damage, even after a Curse. Bulky Pokemon such as Slowpoke give Bidoof without Charge Beam problems, as their sheer physical bulk lets them tank hits all day. Special attackers that are immune to or resist Quick Attack scare Bidoof away as they can kill it before it can kill them.</p>