[Overview]

<p>One of the many Fighting-types in Little Cup, Croagunk is the preeminent utility Pokemon. It has an amazing typing and ability, giving it an immunity to Water and resistances to key attacking types in Fighting and Rock. That Fighting resistance lets it check the dominant Fighting-types in the metagame, such as Mienfoo, Scraggy, Riolu, and Timburr, and hard counter Tirtouga. Croagunk can also beat many common Pokemon on balanced teams, including Chinchou, Lileep, and most Staryu. With its huge movepool, it can act as a solid revenge killer, a general utility check, and even as a bulky setup sweeper, potentially all in one set. However, Croagunk's weakness to Flying is a huge drawback with Murkrow as the best Pokemon in the metagame. It also does poorly against Ghost-types like Drifloon and bulky Ground-types, such as Hippopotas and Sandshrew. Additionally, its attacking stats aren't overly impressive so it can lack some power. Overall, Croagunk excels as the glue for a team, filling gaps and acting as a fail-safe, but can not carry the team on its own.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Drain Punch
move 2: Vacuum Wave
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Knock Off / Fake Out
item: Eviolite
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Quiet
evs: 212 HP / 28 Atk / 36 Def / 108 SpA / 116 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Croagunk makes for a fantastic check to Fighting- and Water-types, most importantly to Scraggy, whose two STABs Croagunk resists. Drain Punch is a reliable STAB attack, has reasonable power behind it, and provides some healing. Vacuum Wave is a secondary Fighting STAB and is exceptionally useful; it allows Croagunk to reliably revenge kill Scraggy, Snover, Tirtouga, Omanyte, Shellder, and Pawniard. Sucker Punch is a decent option here to hit Misdreavus more powerfully, but it is unreliable and Misdreavus can use Will-O-Wisp or Substitute, switch out, or even just take the hit, as it almost always does only 45%. Shadow Ball gives perfect coverage along with Croagunk's Fighting STAB and lets it hit Ghost- and Psychic-types hard on the switch. It's also handy in mirror matches against other Croagunk with its chance to drop Special Defense. Dark Pulse has a handy flinch chance, but Croagunk is so slow that it will rarely outspeed anything it wants to flinch. Knock Off is the primary move in the last slot, as it is the premier support move in Little Cup, where removing an Eviolite or a Choice Scarf is very often the difference between a win and a loss. However, Fake Out is also viable, assisting Croagunk in revenge killing, but it is quite weak and quite predictable.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Croagunk's bulk while giving Special Attack a nice boost and dumping the rest into Attack. Dry Skin is by far the best ability to use, making Croagunk immune to Water and making Pokemon such as RestTalk Chinchou a source of healing, but Poison Touch is somewhat viable as Dry Skin is often assumed to be its ability and opponents are wary of spamming Water-type moves. The last slot is really open to preference. Hidden Power Psychic (remember to adjust EVs by 4 to make up for the IV reductions) is very viable as it can rarely OHKO opposing Croagunk, always 2HKO Mienfoo and Riolu, and do 40% minimum to Careful Timburr. Ice Punch is also a good option here, as it can deal a hefty amount to Shroomish, Foonguss, and Murkrow on the switch. Rock Slide can also be used to hit Larvesta, Murkrow, and Ponyta hard.</p>

<p>Croagunk is scared to death of Murkrow so Porygon and Archen make great teammates. Porygon also serves to deal with Misdreavus, Drifloon, and other Ghost-types which can check Croagunk, although Shadow Ball often serves to deter them from switching in with impunity. Abra threatens Croagunk with its Psychic STAB; Murkrow can switch in on Abra, force it out, and set up a Substitute or simply fire off a powerful Brave Bird. Croagunk really isn't too hard to fit onto a team as glue, but make sure it's used in its niches; otherwise, a Pokemon such as Mienfoo is probably better.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulk Up
move 1: Bulk Up
move 2: Drain Punch
move 3: Sucker Punch
move 4: Payback / Knock Off / Vacuum Wave
item: Eviolite
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Adamant
evs: 212 HP / 28 Atk / 116 Def / 116 SpD / 36 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a Bulk Up set, Croagunk can function as a setup sweeper, and this set highlights many of Croagunk's draws in Little Cup, including the ability to set up on the ubiquitous Fighting- and Water-types. It even beats Bulk Up Timburr without resorting to a low-utility move like Hidden Power Psychic. Bulk Up is required to increase Croagunk's Attack and Defense, letting it serve as a threat after a boost or two. Drain Punch gives good healing to a slow setup Pokemon. It's a pretty powerful STAB with an excellent offensive typing. Sucker Punch gives Croagunk a priority attack and with Drain Punch, gives neutral coverage on everything but opposing Croagunk. It has high power for a priority attack and prevents Croagunk from being revenge killed by frail Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Snover and Drifloon. Payback is a solid option in the last slot for hitting Ghosts using status moves, like Substitute Misdreavus, or Ghosts switching in. Knock Off can be used over Payback purely for its incredible utility, but should only be used if you have a way to deal with Misdreavus with Taunt or Substitute. Vacuum Wave is very much in the same boat as Knock Off, but isn't all that powerful without significant investment, so it should only be used if absolutely required.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs maximize Croagunk's bulk while dumping leftover EVs into Attack and Speed. A considerably more offensive spread can be used but will make Croagunk far harder to set up. If using Vacuum Wave, a Brave nature can be used, with Speed EVs moved to Special Attack if desired. Poison Touch is unviable on a Bulk Up set, as being able to be burned by Scald is unacceptable on a Pokemon that sets up on Water-types. Sucker Punch is much less able than a heavily invested Vacuum Wave to revenge kill many threats Croagunk could otherwise check, so keep that in mind. It sets up best on Pokemon that can do little-to-nothing in return, such as Lileep, Chinchou, and Tirtouga. Just remember it's sometimes better mid-game to soften up checks with Drain Punch a little first than to immediately set up. Bulk Up Croagunk can be used as both a mid-game utility Pokemon that beats Chinchou so as to allow MixKrow to wreak havoc or as a late-game sweeper once Misdreavus and Murkrow are removed.</p>

<p>Using Substitute in the last slot helps to scout counters and essentially force them to attack next turn, making Sucker Punch that much more effective. Ice Punch is also usable to hit Grass-types and Murkrow harder. Without Ice Punch, Murkrow can easily switch in on Croagunk and force it out with the threat of Brave Bird, making Archen and Porygon excellent teammates. Burn is particularly crippling for Bulk Up Croagunk, making checking Misdreavus a top priority. Porygon again handles it very well. Foonguss and Larvesta resist Croagunk's Fighting-type STAB. Insomnia Murkrow and Early Bird Houndour deal with the former with ease while Larvesta is best beaten with Stealth Rock support and a bulky Water-type such as Chinchou.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Croagunk has one of the widest effective movepools in Little Cup. First and foremost, Croagunk can run a Nasty Plot set with Vacuum Wave, Shadow Ball, and Sludge Bomb, using Focus Blast over Sludge Bomb if preferred. Ice Punch is always a solid choice to hit Murkrow, Foonguss, and Shroomish effectively at the cost of flexibility. Rock Slide is again handy to hit Murkrow, but it also hits Larvesta and Ponyta meaning Croagunk needs to rely less on a bulky Water-type teammate to handle them. Earthquake can be used for its neutral coverage but it's redundant alongside Croagunk's Fighting STAB and you'd be losing a lot of utility. Pursuit is hilariously weak but it can checkmate highly weakened Misdreavus. Taunt can be a decent option to attempt to prevent setup, but with such low Speed, the opponent is almost always guaranteed at least one turn of setup. Focus Punch can be used with Substitute as a very powerful STAB attack but running it has a huge opportunity cost. Finally, Croagunk's Poison-type STAB in the form of Poison Jab and Gunk Shot can be used, as they're pretty powerful, but they have mediocre-at-best coverage and Gunk Shot is depressingly inaccurate.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ironically, Croagunk's best counter is itself (unless it's running Hidden Power Psychic), resisting its own STAB. Psychic-type attacks are its bane. Abra in particular almost always runs Protect to block Fake Out and will easily KO with Psychic. Shadow Ball will deal a great deal of damage to Abra, however, and some Croagunk run Sucker Punch, so Abra users must be cautious. Staryu with Psychic makes an excellent lure for Croagunk. Flying-types including Murkrow, Drifloon, Vullaby, and Mantyke will deal huge damage with their STAB attacks and take a pittance from Drain Punch. Misdreavus and Drifloon are immune to Drain Punch and can burn Croagunk or KO with Acrobatics, respectively, but must beware of Shadow Ball, Payback, and Sucker Punch. Frillish can burn it and just heal repeatedly with Recover.</p>

<p>Larvesta is an excellent counter to Croagunk as it resists Fighting, takes a puny amount of damage from Sucker Punch, and threatens to retaliate with Will-O-Wisp or Flare Blitz. Ponyta can't switch in as easily nor stay in as easily, but again can burn it or smack it with a powerful attack. Ground-types, such as Hippopotas, Drilbur, and Sandshrew, threaten Croagunk immensely with Earthquake and are quite bulky. Bulk Up Timburr can set up on and beat Croagunk lacking Bulk Up or Hidden Power Psychic. Residual damage will wear down Croagunk, and switching in on powerful attacks such as Snover's Blizzard cuts down its lifespan greatly.</p>