[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Diglett may seem like a useless Pokemon because of its low stats; however, there is a real use for it in the Little Cup metagame. First, Diglett is one of the few Pokemon in Little Cup that can reach 20 Speed without a Choice Scarf, though it must have a positive nature to do so. It is almost the perfect revenge killer, making it one of the top threats to look out for. This is one of the biggest reasons why it is useful in the Little Cup metagame. Diglett is also the fastest Little Cup Pokemon with access to Stealth Rock, meaning it is a sure set up in most cases. It also has a great ability in Arena Trap, allowing it to swiftly KO common opponents such as Magnemite and Houndour. Arena Trap also allows Diglett to be paired with many common sweepers and stallers in Little Cup that benefit from its ability. However, Diglett does have many flaws that hold it back. Both its defenses are below 50 and it has an abysmal base 10 HP, meaning Diglett cannot take a hit well. Diglett's offensive stats are also unimpressive, having base 55 Attack. However, despite its flaws Diglett is still great in the Little Cup metagame.</p>

[SET]
name: Life Orb
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Rock Slide
move 3: Sucker Punch
move 4: Memento / Substitute
item: Life Orb
ability: Arena Trap
nature: Jolly
evs: 36 HP / 236 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is pretty much the standard on Diglett. Between EdgeQuake coverage and Sucker Punch, Diglett can hit almost everything for neutral damage. Earthquake is the best STAB move possible for Diglett, and 100 Base Power it can tear through almost anything that doesn't resist it. Rock Slide can hit Ice types that try to threaten Diglett, such as Snover. Be warned though, Ice Shard will hit Diglett first. Rock Slide is also good for Flying types, such as Tailow. Between Earthquake and Rock Slide, Diglett can hit everything in Little Cup except for Bronzor for neutral damage. Sucker Punch completes Diglett's coverage, allowing it to hit Bronzor. However, most notably, Sucker Punch can deal super effective damage to Abra and Misdreavus, two major threats in the Little Cup metagame. In addition, it can be used for Choice Scarf users who try to outspeed and KO Diglett. Memento is a unique move, allowing Diglett to do something useful when it otherwise would be useless, or to break a sweep. Alternatively, Substitute can be used to give Diglett the nice ability to take an extra hit, though it takes some prediction to use correctly. It is much riskier, though, with the damage from Substitute and Life Orb recoil adding up for a bunch of damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>This set's main goal is for Diglett to hit as hard and fast as possible, making it an effective revenge killer. The EVs given allow Diglett to hit max Attack and max Speed, which is really all you need when using Diglett. They're also useful for outspeeding threats such as Staryu. The remainder is dumped into HP so Diglett gets a little bit more health for Life Orb recoil. Life Orb is used to boost Diglett's attack, assuring that it can KO the things it traps. As far as other useable moves go, Diglett doesn't have much to work with. However, Shadow Claw can be useful for Psychic and Ghost types that do not have a Choice Scarf. Stealth Rock is also an option, as Diglett is the fastest Pokemon in Little Cup with access to it.</p>

<p> Diglett can be used with Tirtouga to trap some of the turtle's primary counters and checks such as Chinchou and Magnemite. Murkrow also finds Diglett useful to take out things like the aforementioned Pokemon as well as Houndour, which can deal a large chunk of damage to Murkrow. Croagunk is a problem to most Steel- and Normal-types, and Diglett provides the perfect solution for them. Other Pokemon, such as Mienfoo, Timburr, and Scraggy appreciate Diglett's company due to it being able to trap and KO Psychic-types. Most Psychic-types also like Diglett's ability to threaten Stunky and Houndour. Diglett itself is useful with Mienfoo and Croagunk for Knock Off support, meaning the expanse of Eviolite users is trimmed.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Outside of the options already listed, there really isn't much else that is useful on Diglett, though there are a few options for some situations. Frustration or Return could be used for neutral coverage, but it provides no extra benefit. A Focus Sash along with Stealth Rock would mean that Diglett would be almost guaranteed to set up an entry hazard, unless the opponent has entry hazards of their own in play. Diglett has two other options in Choice Scarf and Choice Band, though they both have drawbacks; the former doesn't let Diglett hit the necessary power to revenge kill the thing it needs to, and the latter is contradictory to Diglett's primary niche. Substitute + Hone Claws can let Diglett take a hit while boosting Attack and accuracy for moves such as Rock Slide to let it sweep with relative ease. However, with the Diglett's frailty, Substitute and Life Orb recoil are going to hurt. Pursuit is also an option again things like Misdreavus, who may try to predict a Sucker Punch.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Diglett is nearly impossible to counter, as Arena Trap prevents the opponent from simply switching out. However, considering Diglett's low defenses, it comes as no surprise that there is a whole host of checks for the mighty mole. Bulky Normal types, such as Porygon, Munchlax, and Lickitung can tank everything Diglett throws their way, stopping it cold. Choice Scarf Porygon, in particular, can Trace Arena Trap and OHKO with Ice Beam. Other defensive Pokemon don't mind Diglett either, such as Hippopotas and Lileep. Drilbur is stronger than Diglett and isn't fazed by its Speed. Bronzor can hardly be touched by it. Staryu, Murkrow, and Tailow can all KO Diglett, but must be wary of attacks from Diglett that can KO them right back. Mienfoo can put a real dent in Diglett, and Timburr can really do some damage with Mach Punch. That's not the only priority that can take out Diglett, however. Snover or Shellder can easily take out Diglett with Ice Shard, but have to be careful of switching into Rock Slide. Tirtouga and Buizel can also take out Diglett with priority when they use Aqua Jet. Finally, most Pokemon with a Choice Scarf can outspeed Diglett and get the KO; however, Diglett carrying Sucker Punch can land a hit before they have the chance.</p>