[Overview]

<p>Although it is outclassed in many areas by Taillow, Doduo still fills a useful niche in Little Cup. With a Choice Scarf and STAB Brave Bird, it can function as a very capable revenge killer, notable for its ability to deal with Dragon Dance Scraggy with ease, one of the biggest threats in the metagame. Despite poor defenses and falling just short of 19 Speed, Doduo can also opt to use Work Up to punch through enemies that usually give it trouble, such as Hippopotas or Bronzor. Overall, Doduo is a versatile offensive Pokemon that is a worthy consideration when teambuilding.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Brave Bird
move 2: Return / Double-Edge
move 3: Pursuit
move 4: Toxic / Roost
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Early Bird
nature: Jolly
evs: 236 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a Choice Scarf equipped, Doduo functions as a very potent revenge killer against many threats, including the very deadly Dragon Dance Scraggy. Brave Bird is undoubtedly the most important move on the set, as the raw power of the move allows Doduo to kill many sweepers not equipped with an Eviolite. Flying-type attacks also provide excellent coverage, in addition to hitting Fighting-types for super effective damage, which are a very prominent force in the metagame. Return provides a reliable STAB move, although Double-Edge can also be used for more power if Doduo's longevity is not a concern, or if Roost is being run. Pursuit is used to trap and finish off weakened Ghost-types such as Gastly. Due to Doduo's sparse movepool, the last slot goes to a non-attacking move. Toxic allows Doduo to cripple most physical walls, including Hippopotas and Slowpoke. Roost can be used on a predicted switch, allowing Doduo to stay around longer or fire off Brave Birds without worry.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature allows Doduo to revenge kill Clamperl after it has used Shell Smash. The EV spread is simple, focusing on outrunning and hurting as many Pokemon as possible. Early Bird is the best of Doduo's abilities, allowing it to potentially beat enemies that carry sleep-inducing moves, such as Shroomish, against which the rest of the team might struggle with. Double Hit can be used to break Substitutes and still deal damage, but Return is preferred for its significantly higher damage output. Quick Attack can let Doduo pick off frail sweepers with access to priority, such as Taillow. Knock Off allows Doduo to remove opposing enemies' items, including Eviolite, which allows Doduo to break through walls more easily.</p>

<p>Pokemon that Scraggy can set up on easily greatly appreciate Doduo's ability to revenge kill it. Rapid Spin users such as Staryu and Sandshrew are useful for remedying Doduo's Stealth Rock weakness. As with any offensive Pokemon, Doduo appreciates entry hazard support. Ferroseed can take Rock-type moves and set up both Stealth Rock and Spikes. Chinchou can take Electric- and Ice-type moves thrown at Doduo while Doduo has a handy Ground-type immunity that benefits Chinchou. Houndour enjoys having Fighting-types removed and also deals with Ferroseed and Ghost-types, allowing Doduo to use its STAB moves more effectively.</p>

[SET]
name: Work Up
move 1: Work Up
move 2: Brave Bird / Drill Peck
move 3: Return / Double-Edge
move 4: Hidden Power Ground / Hidden Power Grass
item: Life Orb
ability: Early Bird
nature: Naive
evs: 236 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>Running a mixed set allows Doduo to catch its regular counters off-guard, hitting them on their weaker Special Defense. Work Up allows Doduo to reach a respectable level of Special Attack, allowing it to reliably nail its checks. Brave Bird is Doduo's best STAB move, hitting like a truck after a Work Up. Drill Peck is a more consistent option, but is significantly less powerful. Return is the preferred Normal-type STAB move, as using both Brave Bird and Double-Edge on the same set will result in Doduo dying very quickly. Hidden Power Ground OHKOes Magnemite and Aron after a boost, but Hidden Power Grass is also an option for Rock-types, such as Omanyte, while also hitting Hippopotas for a good amount of damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is the preferred item in order to give Doduo more power, although Eviolite is an option in conjunction with Roost over Doduo's Normal-type STAB in order to increase longevity. Naive allows Doduo to outrun as many threats as possible, while still taking priority moves slightly better than a Hasty nature would allow. The EVs maximize physical offensive capability, although a point or two can be shifted from Attack to Special Attack in order to hit Hidden Power targets harder.</p>

<p>Wynaut makes an excellent partner for this set, as it can provide Doduo free opportunities to set up and removes Choice Scarf users that would otherwise be problematic. Sandshrew takes Rock- and Electric-type moves while also providing Stealth Rock and Rapid Spin support, both of which are very beneficial to Doduo. Flame Orb Taillow can be used in conjunction with this set, as it greatly benefits from having physical walls removed. Magnemite can trap and kill Steel-types if Doduo isn't using Hidden Power Ground, and provides an Ice- and Rock-type resistance. It also benefits from Doduo's Ground-type immunity.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>While equipped with a Focus Sash, Doduo can use Endeavor and Quick Attack in order to kill any Pokemon barring Ghost-types, Pokemon that cause residual damage, faster Pokemon with priority moves, or Pokemon that can heal themselves while being outsped by Doduo. Double Hit allows Doduo to break Substitutes while still dealing damage, and can be used to disrupt Pokemon using Focus Punch. Steel Wing hits Rock-types that would normally wall Doduo, but most have the defenses to not be bothered by it. Rest with Early Bird allows Doduo to heal and avoid status, but Roost is generally the better recovery option. Pluck can be used to steal Oran Berries, but with the advent of Eviolite, Oran Berry is now less common, making Pluck rarely worthwhile. Steel Wing can be used to damage Rock-types, although they are rare in Little Cup, barring Dwebble, which takes neutral damage from Brave Bird, and usually have a high enough Defense stat to take the attack with little trouble. Thrash can be used with Tangled Feet in order to gain a free evasion boost after Doduo becomes confused, but being locked into a Normal-type move is not a good idea. Knock Off can be used to remove the opponent's item, as getting rid of Eviolite on a troublesome wall can prove to be very beneficial to the team. Mimic can be used to steal a move, but is illegal with Brave Bird and rarely worth the use.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Physical walls make life difficult for Doduo if it is not running a mixed set. Hippopotas can soak up Brave Birds effortlessly and KO back with Stone Edge or outstall Doduo with Slack Off until Brave Bird recoil kills Doduo. Snover threatens Doduo significantly as it can use a Choice Scarf to outspeed and OHKO Doduo with Blizzard, or use Ice Shard to kill it if Doduo uses a Choice Scarf of its own. The hail Snover brings to the field also shortens Doduo's lifespan as its health is worn down even more quickly. Steel-types in general are very difficult for Doduo to break through. Rock-types are even more threatening as they resist Doduo's STAB moves and can threaten to OHKO with their own. Additionally, they can take advantage of the forced switch and set up with Shell Smash or Rock Polish. Due to Doduo's frailty, most priority moves can pick it off with little prior damage.</p>