[Overview]

<p>When compared to other powerhouses or defensive tanks that share similar traits to Ducklett, such as Murkrow, Chinchou, or even Mantyke, Ducklett seems helplessly outclassed, sporting neither outstanding offensive stats nor a considerable amount of bulk. However, it does have some key traits that distinguish it from its other Flying- or Water-types. One of these is its good typing, which gives it some helpful resistances to Fighting, Ground, and Bug. Its typing also grants it an uncommon neutrality to Ice and Grass, making it a decent check to the ever present Snover. It also has a fair support movepool and usable stats, letting it support its team as either a bulky physical tank or an anti-weather support Pokemon. Additionally, it boasts access to the coveted Roost, a recovery move other walls only wish they had. Still, it has a crippling 4x weakness to Electric and 2x weakness to Stealth Rock, making it tough for Ducklett to switch in and support its team with FeatherDance or Rain Dance when needed. It's also fairly slow, weak, and not outstandingly bulky, so it cannot stand up to some of the tier's stronger attackers. Its niche is very specific—unless your team desperately needs a weather counter or a good Fighting-type check, Ducklett may be outclassed. However, it does fill a few specific niches, and it fills them well.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky FeatherDance
move 1: FeatherDance
move 2: Toxic
move 3: Roost
move 4: Surf / Air Slash
item: Eviolite
ability: Big Pecks
nature: Calm
evs: 180 HP / 196 Def / 4 SpA / 116 SpD 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to utilize Ducklett's useful resistances to Bug-, Water-, and most of all, Fighting-type attacks as well as its fair defensive bulk in order to make it a physical tank. FeatherDance is what makes this set successful, stopping all physical attackers that can't hit it super effectively by halving the damage of their attacks. It can then stall its opponent with Toxic, all the while effortlessly sponging its opponents' weakened attacks. Should Ducklett's health fall too low, it can recover with Roost. Roost also lets Ducklett shrug off Stealth Rock and residual damage and in general makes it last much longer. The last slot is reserved for an attacking move. Surf hits Drilbur and Hippopotas hard, nailing the former for an OHKO and the latter for a 2HKO. Air Slash, on the other hand, is used for Snover, OHKOingafter a bit of residual damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Ducklett's bulk, giving it nice mixed defenses. Max HP and Special Defense are used so that Ducklett can take hits that it cannot weaken with FeatherDance. 4 Special Attack EVs are all it needs to raise its Special Attack by a point, letting Ducklett OHKO Drilbur and 2HKO Hippopotas with Surf. The little boost in power also lets Ducklett OHKO Snover after some residual damage, such as Stealth Rock or Spikes. The rest is all stashed into defenses to give Ducklett good defensive bulk so that it can tank the physical moves it will be handling. In terms of ability, this set should use Big Pecks, which allows Ducklett to escape Defense drops from Scraggy's Crunch. Hydration is quite useless, as rain is very rare in Little Cup. Extra Special Attack can be invested to give Ducklett some extra power, but the only notable difference is that Snover is OHKOed more reliably, and the cost is a lot of extra bulk.</p>

<p>Because Ducklett needs to be able to switch in repeatedly, it appreciates Rapid Spin support to keep Stealth Rock off the field, as it makes it susceptible to some common 2HKOs. Drilbur gets a mention here as it is also immune to Electric-type moves and can take Rock-type attacks fairly well. Chinchou is another great partner as it is immune to Electric and enjoys the weakening of opposing physical sweepers. It also has access to Heal Bell, which Ducklett really appreciates to help it erase any status it is inflicted with. Ferroseed is another awesome partner that has perfect synergy with Ducklett. It walls Electric-, Rock-, and Steel-types and can even set entry hazards to damage opponents that are forced out by Ducklett. It benefits from Ducklett's ability to wall Fire- and Fighting-types too.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Rain Dance
move 1: Rain Dance
move 2: Surf 
move 3: Hurricane / Air Slash
move 4: Rest / Roost
item: Eviolite
ability: Hydration
nature: Calm 
evs: 180 HP / 196 Def / 4 SpA / 116 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set maximizes Ducklett's potential to support with Rain Dance and tanking abilities. As hail and sand are so common, the ability to change the weather to rain is very unique and can often be a game changer against unsuspecting foes. Under rain, Ducklett's fair defenses coupled with Eviolite, its immunity to status through Hydration, and its access to reliable, full recovery in Rest make it a very solid tank. It can utilize its resistances as well to sponge a variety of attacks and shrug them off with Rest. It is not a "sitting duck"—although its Special Attack stat is not high, it is enough to nab some crucial KOs with a rain-boosted Surf against Pokemon such as Snover, Mienfoo, Drilbur, and Hippopotas. Surf and Hurricane have decent coverage together, and the confusion chance can definitely aid Ducklett and its team members. Hurricane nets the OHKO on Snover as well as Mienfoo after some prior damage and hits Grass- and Water-types that resist Surf. Air Slash can also be used instead of Hurricane for more accuracy outside of Rain, but there is a notable difference in power, and it does miss out on the OHKO against Mienfoo and Snover. Rest should be used on the last slot for instant, reliable recovery with no drawbacks under rain, as Hydration heals off the sleep by the end of the turn. Roost is another option for the last slot for reliable recovery outside of rain should Ducklett not want to rely on rain too much.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Ducklett's HP and Defense, and 116 Special Defense EVs along with a Calm nature give Ducklett good special bulk and balanced defenses. The Eviolite gives Ducklett even more bulk, and Hydration lets Ducklett become immune to status in the rain. The 4 Special Attack EVs allow Ducklett to OHKO Drilbur and 2HKO Hippopotas with Surf, while powering up Hurricane. Ducklett can use Scald instead of Surf on the second slot for the burn chance, but it loses the ability to reliably take out Hippopotas and Drilbur outside of rain. A Damp Rock can also be used to make the rain last longer, but this sacrifices a lot of bulk.</p> 

<p>In terms of partners, Ducklett likes to be paired with spinners and/or hazard setters, as it forces switches but suffers because of Stealth Rock. Drilbur is a nice partner, as it resists Rock and is immune to Electric and can KO Magnemite and Chinchou, two Pokemon that can OHKO and wall Ducklett. Grass-types are also effective partners. Ferroseed is a great partner because it has perfect synergy with Ducklett and can set up entry hazards. It also appreciates the rain, as it helps weaken Fire-type moves. Pokemon that can take advantage of the rain can also be great partners. For example, Anorith can grab a Speed boost in the rain, as well as spin away Stealth Rock. Chinchou is another great partner as it is immune to Electric-type moves and can wall Magnemite and Chinchou. It also receives a nice power boost from rain.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Ducklett does not have many other viable options up its sleeve due to its sparse movepool. However, a SubRoost set can be used with Toxic as an attempt to Toxic stall, but it is outclassed by Murkrow, which has better speed, power, and access to Prankster.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Almost all Electric- and Water-types are solid answers to Ducklett, which usually never carries coverage further than its STABs. Chinchou is probably the best answer to Ducklett, as it resists both of Ducklett's STABs and can OHKO with Volt Switch. Magnemite is another great Electric-type check, as it can also OHKO with Volt Switch and has the bulk to take a Scald even in the rain. Rock-types can come in on anything but Surf and OHKO with their STAB moves as well. Bulky Eviolite Lileep is a great example, as it is immune to Scald and only takes around 27% from Hurricane, Ducklett's strongest attack. Pokemon with Taunt or Encore annoy Ducklett, as it relies on support moves and rain in order to function effectively. Bulky Misdreavus is a great counter, as it can shut Ducklett down with Taunt and 3HKO with Shadow Ball.</p>