[Overview]

<p>Electrike is often overlooked in the Little Cup metagame. The thing that sets it apart from its Electric-type brothers is its ability: Lightningrod. Every time Electrike switches into an Electric-type attack, it gains a Special Attack boost. Apart from Elekid, Blitzle, and Voltorb, it is the fastest Electric-type, reaching 17 Speed. Additionally, it has the second highest Special Attack stat, beat out only by Magnemite. Electrike is also unique because it learns Switcheroo, allowing it to cripple opposing Pokemon with a potentially unwanted item. Thunderbolt and Flamethrower together have nearly unresisted coverage. Overall, Electrike has a neat niche in the metagame because it can do things that other Electric-types cannot.</p>

[SET] 
name: Choice
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Flamethrower
move 3: Thunderbolt
move 4: Hidden Power Grass / Switcheroo
item: Choice Specs / Choice Scarf
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Timid / Modest
EVs: 240 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>With decent Special Attack and Speed stats, Electrike is just asking for a Choice item. Electrike's solid 17 Speed allows it to act as an effective sweeper, outspeeding many threats. A Timid nature with 236 Speed EVs are necessary for hitting 17 Speed. Choice Specs are used for hitting hard and switching out afterwards. With 236 Special Attack EVs and Choice Specs, Electrike hits 24 Special Attack, allowing it to deal heavy damage to a slew of common Pokemon. Volt Switch gets STAB and allows Electrike to scout the opposing team. Thunderbolt is Electrike's most powerful STAB option. Flamethrower hits any Grass-types which resist Electrike's STAB moves. For the last slot, Switcheroo cripples an opposing Pokemon with the unwanted Choice Specs, while Hidden Power Grass hits Hippopotas and Wooper for super effective damage. Lightningrod is Electrike's best ability, and is what sets it apart from other Electric-types, as it can switch in on an Electric-type attack and catch a Special Attack boost. After this boost, Electrike reaches a massive 32 Special Attack (factoring in the Choice Specs boost).</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If Choice Specs isn't wanted, Electrike can also run a Choice Scarf very well. Using a Modest nature will give an extra point to Special Attack, reaching 17, in exchange for a point of Speed, reaching 24 after factoring in the Scarf. However, a Timid nature can still be used to tie with other base 17 Speed Choice Scarf users. It still can get a boost by switching into an Electric-type attack, and will reach 25 Special Attack (considering a Modest nature) with that boost. After maximizing both Speed and Special Attack, the remaining EVs are placed in HP for a small boost. This set functions as a revenge killer, and can even sweep late-game provided it has a Lightningrod boost. Diglett is a problem, as it outspeeds Electrike and can OHKO with Earthquake; however, it needs to be careful about switching in on a Hidden Power Grass. Scarf Snover can remove Diglett easily, making it a great partner for Electrike.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Charge Beam
move 1: Charge Beam
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Thunderbolt / Flamethrower
item: Life Orb
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Timid
EVs: 240 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Charge Beam is a fun move to spam in order to gain Special Attack boosts. Investing 236 Speed EVs and using a Timid nature, Electrike hits 17 Speed. The 236 Special Attack EVs bring it to 16 total, allowing it to hit quite hard. This combination of Speed and Special Attack, not to mention its fantastic ability, Lightningrod, allows Electrike to abuse Charge Beam better than any other Electric-type in the metagame. Substitute allows Electrike to take a hit while gaining a boost. Hidden Power Grass hits Wooper, one of Electrike's biggest counters due its ability to ignore boosts, for super effective damage. Thunderbolt is a reliable STAB attack to use in the last slot. Life Orb increases Electrike's damage output, giving its attacks an extra kick. Each Charge Beam boost raises Electrike's Special Attack by 8 points, so after a few boosts, it will be dishing out major damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Flamethrower is a nice move to hit Ferroseed and Snover, which both wall this set otherwise. It can be used instead of Thunderbolt, as Electrike already has Charge Beam for a STAB move. It should be noted, however, that Thunderbolt does significantly more damage to targets not 4x weak to Fire-type attacks thanks to the STAB boost it gets. If both Thunderbolt and Flamethrower are desired, Substitute should be dropped. The 36 remaining EVs are placed into HP to add a point. This set appreciates Stealth Rock support to weaken incoming threats and make sweeping easier. This set is best used during the late-game, as it is very effective for cleaning up weakened foes. Diglett outspeeds Electrike and can switch in on an Electric-type attack and KO with Earthquake (provided a Substitute is not set up). Wynaut can turn the tables on Diglett and trap it, proceeding to KO it with Counter.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Electrike does not have a bad movepool, but it's not great either. It can use Signal Beam to hit Psychic-types for super effective damage, but they aren't particularly common aside from Slowpoke, which is hit harder by Thunderbolt. Hidden Power Ice hits Dratini, but loses out on coverage on Chinchou and Wooper. Discharge can be used for paralysis, but is less powerful than Thunderbolt. Electrike does have access to priority in Quick Attack, but it isn't very useful, as all of Electrike's sets are specially based.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Any Ground-type can switch into Thunderbolt and Volt Switch thanks to their immunity. Chinchou walls all of Electrike's attacks bar Hidden Power Grass. Lileep in a sandstorm can take super effective hits with impunity, heal any damage with Recover, and set up either Curse or Stockpile. Wooper is immune to Electric-type moves and resists Flamethrower; it can also set up Curses.</p>