[Overview]

<p>Straight out of Area 51 or some thriller alien movie, you'd better pray that this little green man comes in peace; with base 85 Special Attack and Analytic boosting its attacks, Elgyem isn't something you want to get on the bad side of. Normally such a low Speed stat on an offensive Pokemon would be awful, but Elgyem somehow manages to make it work through the use of Analytic, above average 55 / 55 / 55 defenses, and Recover. Its Psychic typing even manages to make itself useful, giving Elgyem a nice resistance to Fighting-type attacks that allows it to switch in on most Fighting-types without much worry. Analytic really is what makes Elgyem so impressive though; its Speed is so low that it will almost always be slower than its opponent, so Elgyem consistently has the equivalent of a free Life Orb boost without the added recoil. Because of the sheer power that Analytic provides, Elgyem is easily the best bulky attacking Psychic-type in LC and one of the best bulky attackers in the tier.</p>

<p>Although Elgyem might have superior technology, impressive firepower, and adorable looks (it even has a little tail!), it's not without flaws. Once Elgyem has taken down a Pokemon, it's usually in range to be revenge killed. This issue is further compounded by Elgyem's weakness to three of the best offensive Pokemon in LC: Scraggy, Murkrow, and Misdreavus. Even though Elgyem can actually survive their attacks at full health, it will almost always have taken a hit or two before KOing a Pokemon and thus will very rarely be at full health against these three. Elgyem also takes quite a bit of skill to use effectively. The opponent will often switch out against Elgyem, and it can take good prediction to nail whatever is coming in... unless you can get Elgyem's mind probing devices working, that is.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Attacker
move 1: Psychic
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Hidden Power Fighting
move 4: Recover
item: Eviolite
ability: Analytic
nature: Modest
evs: 76 HP / 240 SpA / 120 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Get in, hit hard, and get out. If that's not how you're using Elgyem, you're doing it wrong. Elgyem is bulky enough to come in on weaker Pokemon, such as Bronzor, Foongus, and Natu, as well as Fighting-types such as Timburr, and safely spam its high powered, Analytic-boosted attacks. Speaking of Analytic, it is Elgyem's most defining attribute and what sets it apart from other Psychic-types, especially in tandem with its base 85 Special Attack. There aren't many Pokemon in LC that can avoid a 2HKO from Elgyem, provided Elgyem uses the right combination of attacks. This of course means that when you're using Elgyem, prediction is key. However, if you can land the correct attacks, Elgyem becomes a beast. Psychic is an odd move to spam in a tier where Murkrow, Scraggy, Bronzor, and Ferroseed are ubiquitous, but it is Elgyem's most powerful attack against most Pokemon. Thunderbolt or Hidden Power will hit the aforementioned Pokemon hard though, so they usually aren't a problem with decent prediction. With Recover, Elgyem can stay in the game for the long haul against teams where it is able to switch in multiple times.</p>

<p>For a Pokemon that is meant to utilize Analytic to its full effect, running a Modest nature with Speed EVs might seem strange at first; with the given spread, Elgyem will hit a Speed of 11. This allows Elgyem to outspeed many slower walls, so it can hit them with an Analytic-boosted attack while they switch in and then finish them off before they can move. This Speed investment also gives Elgyem an easier time against specific Fighting-types, mainly Croagunk (and to an extent Timburr). With its Special Attack maxed out, Elgyem hits 19 Special Attack, and with what is essentially a free Life Orb boost to most of its attacks, Elgyem is one of the hardest hitting Pokemon in LC. Even with just 76 HP EVs, Elgyem will have the bulk to not only come in on weaker Pokemon but also take some STAB super effective moves at full health in a pinch.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The above combination of moves is usually the best, but Elgyem does have a couple of other options. Shadow Ball is Elgyem's strongest attack against Misdreavus and opposing Psychic-types, and although it won't OHKO Misdreavus, it comes fairly close. Calm Mind can also be used over Thunderbolt or Hidden Power. This lets Elgyem set up on many weaker Pokemon and beat bulkier Pokemon it would otherwise not be able to, such as Lileep. Alternatively, Elgyem can run Charge Beam instead of Thunderbolt, allowing it to attack and set up simultaneously. However, without the Special Defense boosts Calm Mind provides, Elgyem will be even easier to revenge kill, and the initial drop in power is noticeable. If the EV spread irks you, a bulkier spread of 236 HP / 240 SpA with a Quiet nature is an option. This spread allows Elgyem to survive almost any attack if it's close to full health, such as Sucker Punch from Eviolite Murkrow or Shadow Ball from Misdreavus. If this spread is chosen, make sure to set the Speed IV to 2, which minimizes Elgyem's Speed for Analytic while still keeping Hidden Power Fighting.</p>

<p>This little alien requires a bit of support to bring out its true potential. Like every Pokemon, Elgyem greatly appreciates entry hazard support, as in many instances it's the difference between nabbing or missing a OHKO or 2HKO. Thus, Pokemon such as Ferroseed, Lileep, and Tirtouga are good partners, as they can set up Spikes and Stealth Rock respectively. Elgyem works well with these Pokemon in particular as Ferroseed and Lileep cover the Water-types that Elgyem has a neutral match-up with, at best, while Tirtouga is a very solid Murkrow check. Additionally, Elgyem helps to cover some of the Fighting-types that threaten these Pokemon. Shelmet also works well as a teammate, protecting Elgyem from Scraggy while also laying down Spikes.</p>

<p>Elgyem will often come in on bulky Pokemon that carry status moves, so a cleric is much appreciated. Chinchou is the obvious choice, and also helps against Murkrow to boot. Lickitung is an option as well, and can use Knock Off to make Elgyem hit even harder by removing Eviolites. Pokemon that lure in the bulky Pokemon that Elgyem can come in on are almost mandatory. Chinchou helps out in this regard, drawing in weaker Pokemon such as Foongus and Ferroseed. Ferroseed is again a great partner for this reason, as it is bait for Natu and Fighting-types.</p>

<p>Because three of Elgyem's biggest checks&mdash;Scraggy, Murkrow, and Misdreavus&mdash;are all top threats themselves, it's important to include teammates that can deal with them, especially because some other helpful teammates will surely aggravate these weaknesses. The aforementioned Chinchou, Tirtouga, Ferroseed, and Shelmet all work well (Chinchou and Tirtouga for Murkrow, Ferroseed for Misdreavus, and Shelmet for Scraggy), as well as helping out Elgyem in other ways. Some other helpful teammates include Mienfoo, which can check Scraggy and use either U-turn to get Elgyem in safely or Knock Off to remove Eviolite from opposing Pokemon, and Archen, which can check Murkrow and either set up Stealth Rock or provide U-turn support.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Most Psychic-types have a myriad of disruptive and supporting moves, and Elgyem is no exception. These options include (but are not limited to): Calm Mind, Nasty Plot, Reflect, Light Screen, Thunder Wave, Trick Room, and a Choice Specs set. They all seem alright on paper, but most of the time other Pokemon pull off that particular option better or the set just isn't as viable as it seems. For instance, Elgyem doesn't have the Speed to effectively pull off a stat boosting set, with the possible exception of Calm Mind. If you're running a dual screens set, you should use the much faster Abra, or even Natu. Both Thunder Wave and Trick Room nullify Analytic (which is Elgyem's best attribute), and Elgyem is just not bulky enough for Choice Specs considering it has to take a hit or two before attacking. Elgyem has a solid niche, but it's not any of these.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>One popular theory in Pokemon mythology is that Elgyem actually came to our planet in order to escape other Pokemon that were pursuing it in an attempt to harness its powers for evil. Not really, I just made that up. But if it was true, those evil Pokemon would be the common Dark- and Ghost-types in the tier, notably Murkrow, Scraggy, and Misdreavus. Each of these Pokemon has slight difficulty getting in due to Elgyem's ridiculous firepower, but, if they come in safely, they will either force Elgyem out or KO it if it's even slightly weakened. Other Dark-types, such as Stunky, Houndour, Vullaby, and even Pawniard can do the same. Stunky, Houndour, and Pawniard in particular possess Pursuit (and commonly run it), and Stunky is also not weak to any of Elgyem's attacks. Can't you just imagine a malicious Stunky or Houndour chasing down and knocking out a helpless Elgyem with Pursuit? That scenario just seems awful and scary, and I would probably cry if I saw that happen.</p>

<p>Elgyem's problems don't stop there however. Other Pokemon with super effective attacks and decent bulk can also be threatening to face. Larvesta has a powerful U-turn that will take a massive chunk out of Elgyem, and even if Elgyem switches out, the opponent will still have the upper hand. Even a Pokemon such as Dwebble could be potentially disastrous to face should it somehow come in safely. Bulky Pokemon that Elgyem can't 2HKO will also be a nuisance. Lileep is the most prolific example, as, even outside of sand, it can avoid a 2HKO in almost all circumstances and stall out Elgyem with Toxic and Recover. Similarly, Munchlax can tank attacks from Elgyem and hit back with Pursuit or a STAB move.</p>

<p>Elgyem's biggest problem is that its presence on the battlefield is limited due to its low Speed. While it isn't OHKOed by much, after it beats a Pokemon it'll probably be in range to be revenge killed by another powerful attacker. The trick to playing around Elgyem is to exploit this fact and accept that you might lose a Pokemon to it. Once it KOes something, any powerful Pokemon&mdash;such as Drilbur, Snover, Magnemite, or any of the offensive Pokemon listed above&mdash;will usually be able to revenge kill it, or at least force it out and make sure it can't easily come back in.</p>