[Overview]

<p>With outstanding defensive stats, a unique defensive typing, and a wide array of support moves, Ferroseed has absolutely everything it needs to stand out as a bulky wall while playing a supporting role. It has outstanding base 44 / 91 / 86 defenses, letting it take on many top tier threats without a sweat. Ferroseed boasts ten resistances, including many to common attack types such as Water, Electric, Rock, Ghost, and Psychic, making it even tougher to take down. Ferroseed also has a fantastic support movepool, with both types of common entry hazards, Leech Seed, and Thunder Wave, making it one of the best support Pokemon in the Little Cup metagame. However, all of this comes with a few weaknesses that do stand out. It has a 2x weakness to Fighting and a crippling 4x weakness to Fire-type moves, making it weak to many common attackers, such as Mienfoo and Scraggy. Ferroseed also lacks an offensive presence and is often setup bait for opponents who have high defenses or good resistances. Still, because of its outstanding bulk and support movepool, it should be considered for every team.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Support
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Leech Seed / Thunder Wave
move 3: Stealth Rock / Protect
move 4: Gyro Ball / Bullet Seed
item: Eviolite
nature: Relaxed / Impish
evs: 164 HP / 188 Def / 148 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As one of the few reliable Spikers in LC, Ferroseed can use its monstrous bulk and excellent resistances to set up entry hazards against many common opponents. Ferroseed's flagship set takes advantage of its bulk and support movepool, making it a supporting machine. With an Eviolite, Ferroseed reaches an outstanding 22 / 28 / 25 defenses. It also has a variety of resistances and a neat ability in Iron Barbs, which punishes physical attackers and spinners, making it a solid defensive wall. Ferroseed also has access to Leech Seed, which not only heals itself and makes it even tougher to take down but also steadily damages its opponents, providing further residual damage. Thunder Wave can also be used in the second slot to cripple opponents and is especially useful for preventing Ferroseed from being setup upon. Stealth Rock, which will provide its team with further entry hazards and a way to discourage Fire-types from switching in, is the primary option in the third slot. However, if Stealth Rock is already covered by a teammate, Protect is an alternative, letting Ferroseed scout its opponents' moves and stall with Leech Seed, status, or sandstorm. An attacking move is recommended for the second slot so Ferroseed can avoid being setup bait and vulnerable to Taunt. Gyro Ball hits faster opponents such as Choice Scarf Murkrow, Misdreavus, Drilbur, Snover, and Abra quite hard, while Bullet Seed gets past Substitutes while also hitting Water-, Ground-, and Rock-types for decent amounts of damage. Bullet Seed also hits most common spinners for super effective damage, making spinning against Ferroseed an even riskier task.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The listed EV spread gives Ferroseed as much physical bulk as possible and maximizes its HP stat. The remaining EVs are then put into Special Defense for added special bulk. 0 Speed IVs and a negative Speed nature make Ferroseed as slow as possible to power up its Gyro Ball. However, if one chooses not to use Gyro Ball, an Impish nature with 31 Speed IVs should be used as minimal Speed is no longer necessary and the extra Speed could help Ferroseed outspeed certain opponents. The 36 remaining EVs should also then be put into Speed if one does not use Gyro Ball. Seed Bomb is a possible replacement attack for the fourth slot, but Gyro Ball is a more consistent STAB move, and Bullet Seed hits past Substitute and occasionally has higher damage rolls.</p>

<p>Because of its unique typing and plethora of resistances, Ferroseed pairs well defensively with many other Pokemon in Little Cup. Frillish is a great partner, as it can deal with Fire- and Fighting-types easily and can prevent Rapid Spinners from erasing Ferroseed's entry hazards. It can also add status or Taunt to help the stalling effort. Chinchou also pairs well with Ferroseed, as it can absorb Fire-type attacks and force switches to rack up entry hazard damage. Pokemon that appreciate entry hazards and Leech Seed support also work well with Ferroseed. Offensive Murkrow, Nasty Plot Misdreavus, Swords Dance Drilbur, and Mienfoo are all great offensive partners, as they appreciate having their walls weakened into 2HKO or 3HKO range. Shell Smash users, such as Clamperl, Tirtouga, and Omanyte, are also good partners with Ferroseed, as they can set up against Fire-type opponents and benefit from the entry hazards it provides as well.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Other than the listed set, Ferroseed doesn't have very much to choose from. It can run an offensive set with Curse and Gyro Ball, but it lacks recovery to help it heal off damage it takes while setting up, making this unreliable. It can run Toxic on the support set to cripple opponents even further, but that takes up the slot of a more valuable support move or attack. A SubSeed set is possible, but is outclassed by other Grass-types, such as Cottonee.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to Ferroseed's bulk and numerous resistances, it is not easy to take it down. There are two main ways to defeat Ferroseed. The best way to handle it is to prevent it from supporting its team. Natu is Ferroseed's worst nightmare; it reflects back all of Ferroseed's attempts to set up and inflict status, heals off any attacks with Roost, and can wear it down with Hidden Power Flying. Pokemon that carry Taunt also do a good job at shutting Ferroseed down. Misdreavus and Murkrow can both Taunt Ferroseed, shrug off any attack, and KO back with Hidden Power Fighting and Heat Wave, respectively. Vullaby is another good Taunt user who doesn't mind Ferroseed's attacks and can remove Ferroseed's Eviolite via Knock Off, making it much easier for teammates to take it down. Another way to defeat Ferroseed is to hit it with powerful, super effective Fighting- or Fire-type attacks. Fighting-types are great answers to Ferroseed, as many carry Drain Punch, which can heal off any residual damage accumulated. Mienfoo gets a special mention as it can shrug off entry hazards with Regenerator and U-turn. Scraggy is also a great counter because it can set up against Ferroseed and is protected against status with Shed Skin. Fire-types can fry Ferroseed and OHKO it with their STABs, but they don't like Stealth Rock. Larvesta, Ponyta, and Houndour can all defeat Ferroseed with their Fire-type STABs or force it out. Magnemite is also a solid counter; it can trap and OHKO Ferroseed with Hidden Power Fire and it doesn't mind Gyro Ball or Bullet Seed.</p>