[Overview]

<p>With a figure that resembles Mr. Potato Head and stats that aren't very appealing in any certain way, Foongus looks like another Pokemon that serves no use competitively. This is far from the truth; Foongus stands tall as one of the best defensive pivots in Little Cup. A resistance to Fighting- and Water-type attacks allow it to fend off many of the most popular threats in Little Cup, such as Mienfoo and Chinchou, and separate itself from other Grass / Poison types through its access to Spore and its Dream World Ability, Regenerator. This allows it to potentially incapacitate a Pokemon for the rest of the match, while also gaining recovery each time it switches out.</p>

<p>It's not all easy for Foongus though: its defenses are lackluster, it has little offensive presence, and it has no reliable recovery outside of Synthesis, which means Foongus will often have to rely on Regenerator to gain back any HP. Foongus is countered by many common threats in the tier, and can be beaten easily if it is kept in too long. Despite this, Foongus is a reliable defensive pivot that can find its way onto many teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility Pivot
move 1: Spore
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Stun Spore
move 4: Clear Smog / Sludge Bomb
item: Eviolite
ability: Regenerator
nature: Bold
evs: 124 HP / 156 Def / 76 SpA / 76 SpD / 76 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Foongus's best set, and the only one it should be using if you choose to have it on your team. It offers good support against sand teams and can absorb Fighting- and Water-type attacks. Spore is the main selling point; put something to sleep and hope that it switches out. If they switch out, Stun Spore is a good option to cripple yet another threat, which puts two-sixths of your opponent's team at a disadvantage. Stun Spore also has the helpful utility of catching Insomnia Murkrow on the switch. Giga Drain is a decent STAB, and it also helps Foongus recover HP against threats like Chinchou and Hippopotas, which is valuable because Foongus has no decent way to heal itself outside of Regenerator. Clear Smog stops annoying setup sweepers such as Scraggy and Dwebble. However, if you feel your team handles these threats well, Sludge Bomb becomes a stronger alternative, which hits Grass-types such as Deerling or Shroomish for much more damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With the given EV spread, even Ross Geller would say that Foongus can pivot. 76 Speed EVs outspeed Slowpoke and allow Foongus to put it to sleep; it also Speed ties with Quiet Croagunk. Synthesis can be used if you want instant healing, but with sand everywhere, it's very unreliable. Toxic can be used over Stun Spore, but paralyzing threats is a valuable role that Foongus plays; however, Toxic greatly helps against Lileep and Munchlax. If you face a Timburr with Ice Punch, it should be played around carefully. Also, Flying-types like Murkrow are threatening as well. Foongus is forever walled by Steel-types such as Ferroseed and Bronzor. Finally, Fire-types such as Larvesta or Ponyta are dangerous to work around. Ice-, Fire-, and Flying-type attacks can all be taken by Chinchou, and Houndour can dispatch Steel-types. It’s also worth noting that Houndour can take Fire-type attacks with Flash Fire, and Foongus can return the favor by absorbing Water- and Rock-type attacks. Houndour also helps to an extent against Abra, who threatens Foongus as well. Finally, Scraggy loves the status that Foongus spreads around because it lets it set up easier and start sweeping.</p> 

[Other Options]

<p>Foongus has a movepool the size of its nose, so there are very few viable options. Hidden Power Fire can be used to stop Ferroseed, but Bronzor is only 4HKOed. It also hits Magnemite, but you'd be better off switching out against it. If Croagunk troubles your team, you can use Hidden Power Flying. Again, Toxic can be used if your team appreciates the poison, but Stun Spore outclasses it. If you're using either a rain or sun team, you can give it Rain Dance or Sunny Day. Otherwise, stick to the above set.</p>

[Check and Counters]

<p>Because Foongus almost always puts something to sleep with Spore, switching in can be difficult. However, once Sleep Clause is active, many Pokemon can come in and threaten Foongus out. Natu is the best counter, as it can come in on both status moves and throw them back with Magic Bounce, resists Giga Drain, and heal Sludge Bomb damage with Roost or threaten with Psychic or Hidden Power Flying. Murkrow with Insomnia can come in on a Spore and OHKO with Drill Peck or Brave Bird. Houndour can run Early Bird to aid against Spore and OHKO with any Fire-type move. Deerling can handle both Spore and Stun Spore, but must be wary of Sludge Bomb. Pawniard can use Foongus as setup fodder but must watch for paralysis. Munchlax usually has Rest to avoid any status. Lickitung plays mostly the same way except it has Heal Bell and better recovery. Snover can OHKO with Blizzard, and Taillow can do the same with Brave Bird. Ferroseed and Bronzor both take little to nothing from Foongus besides status; the former sets up entry hazards, while the latter has Psychic and can set up Stealth Rock. Substitute users such as Misdreavus and Gastly can generally stop and threaten Foongus as it doesn't have the power to break their Substitutes easily. Almost anything that has a way to avoid the dual status can defeat Foongus easily.</p>