[Overview]

<p>Frillish might not have as outstanding bulk as some of the other walls in the tier, but its unique typing and good movepool make it a solid defensive support Pokemon for nearly any team. Its Ghost / Water typing gives it six useful resistances and two immunities, which make it a good answer to many of the tier's physical attackers. It has access to a wide array of support moves, such as Will-O-Wisp, Taunt, and even the coveted Recover, which makes it an even longer-lasting wall. Frillish is also great when it comes to attacking, as it can utilize its base 65 Special Attack and access to moves such as Scald, Water Spout, Hydro Pump, Ice Beam, Giga Drain, and Shadow Ball to run an effective Choice Scarf set. However, Frillish does not lack flaws. Its Ghost typing is a double-edged sword, making it weak to Dark- and Ghost-type attacks, which many top-tier Pokemon often carry. Frillish also has trouble handling opposing walls, especially Water-types, such as Chinchou, and Grass-types, such as Foongus and Shroomish. Still, because of its resistances and supporting movepool, Frillish is a solid contender for a slot on any team that needs support and a physical wall.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Surf / Scald
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Will-O-Wisp / Toxic
move 4: Recover
item: Eviolite
ability: Cursed Body
nature: Calm / Bold
evs: 236 HP / 196 Def / 76 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Using its unique spread of resistances, above-average Special Defense, and fair HP and Defense, Frillish can utilize a physically defensive set to wall a good portion of the LC metagame. Frillish's main advantage over other bulky Water-types is its unique typing, which gives it two immunities and six resistances. This lets it counter a multitude of common threats, such as Mienfoo and Larvesta. Not only is it quite bulky, but it also has a lot of support and attacking options it can use to aid its teammates. It can use Surf to hit opponents hard, especially Ground-, Fire-, and Rock-types. Scald is another option, as it works nicely, giving Frillish the choice to burn or Toxic its foe. However, it does not hit as hard as Surf. Frillish also learns Shadow Ball, which hits Psychic- and Ghost-types for even more damage than Surf. It can also be used to hit Dragon-, Water-, and Grass-types neutrally, something that Surf does not. Frillish's third slot should be used for support. It has access to both Will-O-Wisp and Toxic, the former crippling physical attackers, the latter providing steady damage that wears down walls. Finally, Recover lets Frillish regain any health lost while it sponges hits and makes it last much longer.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs maximize Frillish's HP and Defense to make it as bulky as possible. The rest of the EVs are put into Special Defense to give it some special bulk. Depending on the preference of the user, either a Calm or Bold nature can be used. If Frillish needs to be able to cover special attacking foes, a Calm nature is suggested. If Frillish needs to sponge both physical and special attacks, a Bold nature should be used. Cursed Body is the preferred ability on this set, as Frillish does not need another way to heal itself. It already resists Water-type attacks anyway, and can use Recover to heal itself as needed. Cursed Body gives Frillish a chance to disable any potentially harmful attacks that it tanks.</p>

<p>Because of its unique typing, Frillish fits well into many different defensive cores. Most Steel- and Grass-types work well with Frillish because they have good type synergy. Ferroseed is a great partner, as it has perfect type synergy with Frillish and can lay down entry hazards, which Frillish can ensure stay up via spinblocking, and use Leech Seed. Magnemite has good synergy with Frillish as well, and can trap and remove opposing Steel-types that wall Frillish. It checks Murkrow too, which is a major threat to Frillish. Pawniard is another good teammate; it can trap and remove Psychic- and Ghost-types as well as check Dark-types with its quadruple resistance to their STAB attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Hydro Pump 
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Giga Drain / Water Spout / Trick
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Water Absorb
nature: Timid
evs: 76 HP / 236 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Frillish's Special Attack might not make it seem as formidable offensively as powerhouses such as Misdreavus, Frillish does get access to a variety of powerful attacks and can utilize its decent Special Attack in an offensive Choice Scarf set. It has just enough Speed to be able to outspeed every non-boosted opponent while holding a Choice Scarf, making it an ideal revenge killer and sweeper. Frillish's coverage is fantastic, letting it hit a wide variety of opponents for super effective damage, which makes up for its lack of outstanding Special Attack. Hydro Pump is Frillish's main STAB attack, boasting a massive 180 Base Power after STAB. However, if Hydro Pump's unreliable accuracy is not desired, Water Spout can be used instead. It hits even harder initially, though its power drops rapidly when Frillish sustains damage, so it is not as reliable power-wise. Shadow Ball is Frillish's second STAB attack, hitting opponents for a fair amount of damage. Ice Beam is Frillish's main coverage move, hitting the Grass- and Dragon-types that resist Water Spout for super effective damage. Giga Drain rounds off the set with extra coverage, not only hitting Water-types for a lot of damage but also letting Frillish heal itself and power up its Water Spout for later use. Trick can also be used in the last slot, as it cripples defensive walls that try to switch in and wall Frillish.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs and Timid nature let Frillish hit 14 Speed, which is enough to outspeed every other unboosted opponent when equipped with a Choice Scarf. Max Special Attack lets Frillish hit as hard as possible, and the rest of the EVs are put into HP to give Frillish as much bulk as possible with the few remaining EVs. Blizzard is an option over Ice Beam if one is using Frillish in hail, but this is not recommended if Water Spout is being used, as the residual damage from hail will weaken Frillish's attacks.</p>

<p>Despite this set's offensive nature, many defensive and support Pokemon are great partners. Grass-types are great defensive partners, as they have good type synergy with Frillish and can often cripple opponents with status, making them easier for Frillish to take down. Cottonee is a good partner because its Leech Seed can provide Frillish with some recovery, helping it last longer. Steel-types are also good teammates, as they have even better type synergy with Frillish and can often set up entry hazards to support Frillish. Ferroseed has perfect type synergy with Frillish and can cripple opponents with status and Leech Seed. Frillish hates having to switch into entry hazards, so Rapid Spin support is important. Drilbur gets a special mention, as it is immune to Electric-type attacks and can even lay down Stealth Rock. Offensively, Fighting-types such as Mienfoo, work well with Frillish by removing some Pokemon that wall it, primarily Normal-types.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Frillish can also run an offensive Life Orb set, but due to its low Speed and common weaknesses, such a set does not work very well. Hidden Power Fire can be used as an attacking option for Frillish to hit Steel-types, most notably, Ferroseed.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ferroseed is the best counter to Frillish. It isn't hit super effectively by anything other than the rare Hidden Power Fire, and can set up on or just KO Frillish. Other Grass-types, such as Lileep and Shroomish, can also check Frillish. Shroomish is especially good at walling Toxic Frillish, as Poison Heal lets it recover its health. Lileep is immune to Frillish's Water-type attacks and can Giga Drain it to death. Foongus can Spore Frillish and whittle it down with Giga Drain as well. Snover is a nice check, as the hail it brings can steadily damage Frillish and its Giga Drain can 2HKO. However, take note that, because of Frillish's Cursed Body ability, Choiced Pokemon that can not OHKO it might be forced to switch out. Specially bulky Pokemon, such as Lickitung or Porygon, can also wall Frillish. Porygon's Trace ability lets it switch into Choice Scarf Frillish's Water-type STAB and recover its HP. Water-types, such as Chinchou, are also great checks, as they can often sponge a Giga Drain or two. Chinchou can KO with Electric-type attacks and use Heal Bell to keep its teammates free of status induced by Frillish. Offensively, Ghost- and Dark-types can check Frillish. Misdreavus has enough special bulk to tank any hit and OHKO back with Shadow Ball. Murkrow doesn't like Ice Beam or a full-powered Water Spout but can switch in on anything else and OHKO with Sucker Punch. Scraggy can easily defeat Frillish's defensive set, as it can shrug off status with Shed Skin and set up or KO with Crunch. Pokemon with Knock Off, such as Mienfoo and Vullaby, can also severely cripple Frillish, as Frillish relies a lot on its item for boosts in bulk and Speed.</p>