[Overview]

<p>Little Cup has its share of first-stage Water-type Pokemon, and at first glance, Goldeen seems to be just another run-of-the-mill Swift Swimmer in a metagame where Rain Dance teams are less than viable. However, thanks to its unique ability, Lightningrod, Goldeen can serve as a solid counter to many Pokemon like Chinchou, Magnemite, and Ponyta that rely on Electric-type attacks to hit Water-types. Goldeen also benefits from good Attack and Speed as well as a solid movepool that includes Megahorn to hit Grass-types and Knock Off to support its team by removing opponents' Eviolites. Although Goldeen seems to be overshadowed by Chinchou as a Water-type immune to Electric-type attacks, Goldeen's greater hitting power, ability to heavily damage Grass-types, and access to Knock Off can give it an edge. Overall, Goldeen's combination of ability, typing, stats, and movepool allow it to have a niche in Little Cup even when Swift Swim is not a viable strategy.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulky Attacker
move 1: Aqua Tail
move 2: Megahorn
move 3: Drill Run
move 4: Knock Off
item: Eviolite
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 76 HP / 220 Atk / 36 Def / 172 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Goldeen can make use of its good Attack, Speed, and usable bulk combined with Lightningrod to serve as a niche counter to some Pokemon while still being able to deal significant damage to the opposing team. Being a Water-type with an immunity to Electric-type attacks, Goldeen hard counters most Magnemite, Chinchou, and Return-less Ponyta, and is bulky enough to take a hit from most other physical attackers and respond with an attacking move or Knock Off. Aqua Tail is a strong physical STAB that can hit hard thanks to Goldeen's good base 67 Attack; it is used over Waterfall because its extra power gets some important OHKOs and 2HKOs against Pokemon such as Scraggy and Murkrow. However, if you can provide enough entry hazard support and residual damage, Waterfall is a slightly more reliable option. Megahorn complements Aqua Tail well and allows Goldeen to hit Grass-types for heavy damage, OHKOing Snover and 2HKOing Lileep. Drill Run is the best coverage move for Goldeen, hitting the Pokemon Goldeen hard counters, such as Chinchou and Magnemite, super effectively. Knock Off allows Goldeen to provide valuable utility for its team in removing the Eviolites of bulky switch-ins. As Goldeen tends to lure different Pokemon in than Mienfoo&mdash;specifically Grass-types such as Ferroseed or Lileep&mdash;it can provide support to Pokemon that Mienfoo is less adept at helping. For example, by luring in Ferroseed, Lileep, Snover, and Porygon (Pokemon that would never switch into Mienfoo) and removing their Eviolites, Goldeen can weaken many of Murkrow's checks and allow it to clean up the opposing team.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Goldeen works well with teammates that appreciate its ability to make Magnemite and offensive Chinchou near-useless. Murkrow appreciates Goldeen's ability to shut down some of its checks and soften others with Knock Off; in return, Murkrow can switch into Grass-type attacks and use priority Sucker Punch to check Pokemon that set up on Goldeen. As Goldeen is excellent at luring in Grass-types such as Lileep and Foongus and removing their Eviolites with Knock Off, Pokemon that can break through Lileep and Foongus with this help make for excellent teammates. Tirtouga benefits from Goldeen's ability to switch into Chinchou, and after Goldeen has used Knock Off to remove Lileep and Foongus's Eviolites, Tirtouga can OHKO both Grass-types after a Shell Smash. Goldeen can help Tirtouga further by luring and 2HKOing Croagunk with Drill Run.</p>

<p>Although Goldeen can OHKO Snover with Megahorn on the switch (or use Knock Off to remove its Choice Scarf or Eviolite and proceed to outspeed and OHKO with Megahorn), it is still vulnerable to being revenge killed by Choice Scarf Snover and thus appreciates teammates such as Murkrow and Ponyta that can switch into Grass-type attacks. Frillish and Mantyke hard-wall Goldeen, although they don't appreciate Knock Off; carrying a Lileep or even a Magnemite or Chinchou of your own can help deal with them. Goldeen cannot effectively stop setup sweepers such as Scraggy or Axew. Riolu counters Scraggy, and can use Protect and Copycat to revenge kill Axew with its own Outrage. In order to get a lot of OHKOes and 2HKOes, Goldeen needs entry hazard support and residual damage. Ferroseed can provide Stealth Rock and/or Spikes, Snover can provide hail residual damage and check Drilbur, and Hippopotas can provide both Stealth Rock and sandstorm for residual damage&mdash;although Sandstorm teams may not appreciate stacking up on weaknesses to Grass-type moves with Goldeen.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Although a Rain Dance Life Orb Swift Swim set seems like a possibility for Goldeen to sweep, Swift Swim simply isn't good in this metagame with the high usage of Snover and Hippopotas, and there are better Swift Swim sweepers than Goldeen anyway. Goldeen has a decent special movepool, but it has terrible Special Attack. Toxic, Aqua Ring, and Protect are other support options, but Goldeen isn't bulky enough to stay in for that many turns. A defensive set with Scald, Toxic, and Knock Off can be used, but Goldeen's Special Attack is abysmal, leaving Goldeen highly open to being setup sweepers.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Foongus isn't 2HKOed by anything Goldeen can do, and it can Spore or Giga Drain in return. Snover can revenge kill Goldeen with Giga Drain, but it needs a Choice Scarf to avoid getting outsped and OHKOed by Megahorn. Frillish takes next to no damage from any of Goldeen's attacks, burns Goldeen with Will-O-Wisp, and Recovers off any damage taken, although Goldeen can at least use Knock Off to remove its Eviolite. Ferroseed takes any of Goldeen's attacks and hits back with Bullet Seed or sets up entry hazards. Croagunk can switch into most of Goldeen's attacks, but it is 2HKOed by Drill Run. In the end, Goldeen is neither especially powerful nor especially bulky, so Pokemon with decent physical bulk will probably be able to take its hits and 2HKO back&mdash;although Goldeen will remove their Eviolites with Knock Off in the process.</p>