[Overview]

<p>After spending all of Black and White in the deepest shadows of Little Cup, Golett takes a bold step on to the scene as one of the most reliable Stealth Rock setters around. While Golett might not boast the sheer bulk and sturdiness of Hippopotas and Lileep or the Speed of Dwebble and Drilbur, it makes up for this with an excellent movepool and typing, allowing it to switch in quite easily during a match, get Stealth Rock up, and start breaking down walls. Despite still lacking a second STAB move (Shadow Punch was not released with the Black and White 2 tutors and so remains illegal), underestimate this little automaton at your own peril, because this cutie means business.</p>

[SET]
name: Stealth Rock
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Drain Punch
move 4: Ice Punch / Toxic
item: Eviolite
ability: Iron Fist
nature: Adamant
evs: 44 HP / 244 Atk / 116 Def / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Golett's best and only set. Golett makes an excellent choice for teams that are looking for an offensive entry hazard setter, with several useful resistances, that can maintain offensive pressure. Thanks to its great typing, Golett has little trouble setting up Stealth Rock on many common Pokemon in Little Cup, including Dwebble, Mienfoo, and Porygon (try not to switch into a Shadow Ball or Ice Beam from the latter). After setting up, Golett also doesn't become dead weight. Thanks to its handy ability and very solid movepool, it can be an extremely potent wallbreaker. Common walls such as Lileep, Porygon, and Foongus all face a scary 88% chance of being 2HKOed by the appropriate super effective move after Stealth Rock. Earthquake and Stealth Rock are two obvious choices, being two of the best moves in the game. Drain Punch is a very useful coverage move and hits rather hard when fired off of a mighty 18 Attack and with an Iron Fist boost. It also provides a semi-reliable source of recovery, giving Golett a tool against Scraggy trying to set up and Porygon. Ice Punch rounds off Golett's coverage nicely, hitting Grass- and Flying-types for super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is fairly straightforward. Max Attack with an Adamant nature is necessary to grab those important 2HKOs mentioned earlier. The EV investment allows Golett to hit 11 Speed, just enough to outspeed minimum Speed Magnemite and Porygon. The rest of the EVs are dumped into Golett's decent bulk, giving Golett reasonable 23/19/16 defenses with Eviolite. As for good teammates, offensive Pokemon that appreciate entry hazard support and the resistances Golett provides are generally the way to go. Scraggy is a very good choice, as it enjoys Stealth Rock on the field as well as being paired with a strong switch-in to Mienfoo. Murkrow also is a good choice, as it too appreciates entry hazards as well as partners with resistances to its Electric- and Rock-type weaknesses. Foongus is a good defensive partner, dealing with the Grass- and Water-types that commonly switch into Golett with little issue.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Golett has quite a few other options, but most of them leave Golett outclassed or are just poor options in comparison with its usual moves. ThunderPunch can be used over Ice Punch if you want to hit Slowpoke harder, but running it means you can't hit Hippopotas as hard or, more importantly, 2HKO Foongus and Shroomish. Fire Punch, likewise, can be used to hit Bronzor hard, but otherwise provides inferior coverage. Thief can be an amusing option and allows Golett to deal with even Knock Off variants of Mienfoo with no issue while also providing a nasty surprise for any Misdreavus switching in, but this is highly reliant on the popularity of Knock Off on Mienfoo. Rock Slide can be used to approximate the EdgeQuake combination, but it misses out on the Iron Fist boost and doesn't really offer you anything in the way of coverage other than hitting the odd Wingull or Mantyke harder. Rock Polish is usable, but extremely outclassed by Pokemon such as Drilbur and even Larvitar. DynamicPunch and Focus Punch might look like attractive options, but they are both illegal at level 5. Finally, Shadow Ball can be used if you are desperate for a way to hit Misdreavus.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Misdreavus is the best counter to Golett because of Shadow Punch's legality issues. It can easily switch in and immediately threaten Golett with a powerful Shadow Ball or use it as setup fodder, only fearing the odd Toxic (or Thief if you're playing a really gutsy player). Slowpoke is also a very good choice, as its immense bulk shields it from being 2HKOed by ThunderPunch. Vullaby is also quite a good choice, though be careful if Stealth Rock is up, as it can be 2HKOed if it doesn't outspeed. Hippopotas likewise can't be 2HKOed, but it can't do all that much back and hates Toxic. Murkrow works as a check&mdash;just be aware that Ice Punch will deal a lot to it and it also dislikes Toxic. Natu can also work and even reflects Toxic and Stealth Rock, but Golett is too powerful to be stalled out with Roost. Other good choices include offensive Porygon and Frillish, both which can take a hit and strike back hard before Golett gets the chance to finish them off. The best way to deal with Golett is just to not let it switch in for free and hit its common weaknesses, but failing that, sacrificing a weakened Pokemon to it can make it much easier to deal with.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Golett receives No Guard from the Dream World, but as a genderless Pokemon released from the Dream World at above level 5, it cannot use the ability in Little Cup play. Sadly, Golett does not have access to DynamicPunch in Little Cup, thus making No Guard useless even if it were to become legal. Iron Fist is always the better ability.</p>