[Overview]

<p>The smallest Pokemon in existence, Joltik is often overlooked in favor of bigger, tougher-looking choices such as Magnemite, Chinchou, and Larvesta. As a matter of fact, Joltik is sometimes outclassed by them as an offensive threat, as it doesn't have the same offensive presence or durability. However, Joltik does have three key redeeming qualities: its typing, movepool, and awesome cuteness. Bug / Electric typing is a blessing in the metagame. Like Magnemite, Joltik can threaten Water- and Flying-type opponents. However, it sports a valuable resistance to Fighting-type moves. Joltik can also single-handedly defeat almost all Grass-type threats in the metagame, such as Foongus and Shroomish&mdash;Pokemon that Chinchou struggles with. Larvesta, meanwhile, can only dream of having Joltik's Speed and movepool.</p>

<p>However, Joltik still struggles to find a place in many teams, as it's not powerful enough to sweep teams on its own and its near-useless abilities do it any favors. While it doesn't have a crippling quadruple weakness to Stealth Rock like Larvesta, it still should have a Rapid Spin user as a teammate, as its frailty and reliance on offensive items won't let it last long. Joltik's ability to hit almost all of the metagame neutrally gives it an incredibly useful niche on hyper offensive teams. All in all, with its attractive qualities, Joltik shouldn't be treated as just another cute bug.</p>


[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Bug Buzz
move 4: Giga Drain
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Swarm
nature: Modest
evs: 36 Def / 220 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Joltik can use its great typing, access to Volt Switch, and decent Speed to fulfill a classic scout role. STAB Volt Switch is the main attacking option, as it hits hard while keeping momentum on your side. Thunderbolt is a more powerful option, hitting many threats harder while having a chance of paralysis. Bug Buzz is a more reliable STAB move as nothing is immune to it and it hits Grass-types trying to tank Joltik's Electric attacks for super effective damage. Giga Drain is one of Joltik's main selling points, as it lets Joltik hit Pokemon immune to Electric-type moves, such as Ground-types and Chinchou super effectively. It even gives Joltik some nice recovery in a pinch.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Joltik can also work as an effective revenge killer, as it hits 16 Speed, which, when coupled with a Choice Scarf, lets it outspeed the whole unboosted metagame and some common Pokemon at +1 Speed, such as Scraggy, Snover, Dratini, and Axew. Running a Modest nature maximizes its power. The small investment in Defense lets Joltik better handle most common priority attacks, such as Murkrow's Sucker Punch and Timburr's Mach Punch. The only special priority move, Vacuum Wave, deals little damage thanks to Joltik's Bug typing. Joltik can run a Timid nature to avoid Speed ties against common Choice Scarf users, such as Adamant Mienfoo, Modest Chinchou, Cranidos, and Larvesta; however, the loss of power is very noticeable and Joltik has trouble against all of them either way.</p>

<p>Swarm is the ability of choice, as, without HP investment, switching into Stealth Rock four times will give Bug Buzz a much needed boost. Although it could be seen as contradictory when running Giga Drain, its other abilities are less useful than Swarm. Unnerve can be used, but berries are rare and Joltik shouldn't be staying in against Dwebble, the most common user of them. Compoundeyes is even more situational, as all of the listed moves have perfect accuracy, so it would only be helpful against Sand Veil and Snow Cloak users, but neither ability is used enough to warrant Compoundeyes.</p>

<p>Rapid Spin users are the best teammates for Joltik, as entry hazards heavily limit its switch-ins. Drilbur is the best choice, boasting the ability to set up Stealth Rock on the opponent's side as well, allowing Joltik to take better advantage of the numerous switches it forces. As this set is intended to support the team and not the other way around, it can fit into most teams. Unlike most other Electric-types, however, Joltik cannot defeat Murkrow without team support, so Roost Archen and Tirtouga make excellent partners. Archen can also form a VoltTurn core with Joltik; just note that the stacked Rock-type weaknesses make a Rapid Spin user mandatory. Mienfoo can also form a VoltTurn core with Joltik thanks to its great defensive synergy, resisting Rock-type attacks. Defensive Pokemon such as Porygon and Lickitung can tank its hits and recover their health. Magnemite, the only Pokemon in the tier that resists every attack on this set, can also switch into Joltik without fear. Fighting-type attackers, such as Timburr and Mienfoo, can defeat all of the Pokemon mentioned above. Bulky Misdreavus only resists Bug Buzz, but it won't be bothered much by Joltik's other attacks, so a Pokemon that can handle it, such as Stunky, Houndour, or Vullaby is appreciated. Payback Timburr and bulky Croagunk can also defeat Misdreavus while retaining the ability to hit defensive walls, so they make great partners.</p>

[SET]
name: Agility
move 1: Agility
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Bug Buzz
move 4: Giga Drain
item: Life Orb / Eviolite
ability: Unnerve
nature: Modest
evs: 36 Def / 220 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Joltik's Speed and access to Agility make it a formidable late-game cleaner. Hyper offensive teams will appreciate its ability to clean up weakened teams. This set aims to boost up with Agility when the opponent switches to a Ground-type or Chinchou in an attempt to absorb a Volt Switch. With a boost under its belt, Joltik can attack with Bug Buzz, Thunderbolt, or Giga Drain. Bug Buzz will be the most used STAB, as nothing is immune to it and it has a handy chance to drop Special Defense, which can turn the tides of a tight match. Thunderbolt is the strongest STAB in Joltik's movepool and hits Fighting- and Flying-type opponents, which resist Bug Buzz, hard. Giga Drain allows Joltik to defeat all Ground-types except for Numel and gives it a little recovery so it can last longer.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread and nature aim to maximize damage output. Defense EVs are useful to defend Joltik from priority. It's possible to move those EVs to HP, but they won't make a big difference in survivability because of Life Orb recoil. A Life Orb is needed for this set, as it adds power to all of Joltik's attacks. Eviolite, however, is another option to help Joltik boost up in front of threats it can't scare out, but the damage output won't be enough to secure many OHKOs, such as the ones on non-Eviolite Mienfoo, Pawniard, Houndour, and Dwebble. A Timid nature should also be dismissed even though it allows Joltik to outspeed Adamant Drilbur in the sand and Naughty Drifloon after a boost. Drifloon will easily defeat unboosted Joltik once Unburden has been activated; if it isn't, it has to be wary of Joltik's Thunderbolt. Drilbur, on the other hand, has to take a major risk switching in due to Joltik's Life Orb-boosted Giga Drain, which can potentially OHKO it, making Timid an inferior option. Unnerve is the ability of choice, as Compoundeyes is nearly useless, and Joltik's frailty in addition to Life Orb recoil means that Swarm will give a one-time boost to Bug Buzz and then Joltik will die, making it an inferior option. Unnerve, however, will prevent the odd Oran Berry user, such as Dwebble or Recycle Bronzor, from recovering against Joltik.</p>

<p>Rapid Spin users are good partners. Drilbur, Staryu, and Tentacool are excellent choices, having good defensive synergy with Joltik. Entry hazard setters are also a great option because they allow Joltik to secure OHKOs on threats such as Eviolite Drilbur, bulky Houndour, Murkrow, Vullaby, and Slowpoke. Dwebble and Ferroseed are also solid partners, as they can lay both Stealth Rock and Spikes. Dwebble can act as a suicide lead on hyper offensive teams, while Ferroseed can defeat opposing Rapid Spin users. Bulky Ghost-type partners, such as Misdreavus, can also help in keeping entry hazards up. Golett can set up Stealth Rock and defeat common counters to Joltik, most notably Magnemite; Joltik, in turn, can easily beat the Water- and Grass-types that can stop Golett. It can also defeat Natu so that Golett won't have to worry about its Stealth Rock being bounced back. Creating setup opportunities is needed for Joltik to succeed, as it is very frail. Memento Diglett can provide such opportunities and wear down special walls and Rock-types under sand with its own Life Orb-boosted attacks. Joltik's coverage and Speed make it a good Nasty Plot recipient through Baton Pass. Mime Jr. can use Encore on a weak attack, use Nasty Plot, and then Baton Pass the boost allowing Joltik to more easily sweep through the opposing team.</p>

<p>Hard-hitting offensive partners can overwhelm the opposing team so Joltik can clean up afterwards. Bulky Chinchou forms a devastating offensive core with it, as it attracts Joltik's counters and can weaken them enough for Joltik to sweep. Houndour is also a nice option, being able to take out Bronzor and Magnemite; it can also take advantage of the Fire-type attacks Joltik lures in with Flash Fire. Ponyta can defeat Magnemite and cripple physical priority users with Flame Body. Roost Archen is also a very good offensive partner, as it has a high Attack stat and can thus obliterate walls. Heavy hitters such as Nasty Plot Misdreavus, Dragon Dance Scraggy, and Life Orb Murkrow can also weaken teams enough so Joltik can switch in, boost up, and sweep through the opposing team. Joltik can also switch roles with many of these Pokemon by weakening walls so the other can finish them off.</p>

<p>Electro Ball is a decent option over Thunderbolt, as it can reach 150 Base Power against slow threats such as Slowpoke and Munchlax. However, it isn't useful against Joltik's common checks, as they are not OHKOed. Energy Ball is in a similar position because it always OHKOes Life Orb Drilbur, something Giga Drain fails to do sometimes.</p>

[SET]
name: Eviolite
move 1: Thunderbolt / Discharge
move 2: Bug Buzz
move 3: Giga Drain
move 4: Thunder Wave / Volt Switch
item: Eviolite
ability: Unnerve / Swarm
nature: Bold
evs: 116 HP / 196 Def / 60 SpA / 116 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Joltik's typing leaves it with only two weaknesses&mdash;Fire and Rock&mdash;that are both fairly uncommon. This, coupled with its good resistances to Fighting and Grass, makes Joltik a viable user of a bulky set. With its decent offensive coverage, Joltik can play an important role on balanced teams. Thunderbolt and Bug Buzz are reliable STABs that have useful secondary effects. Discharge is a good option over Thunderbolt, as this set is meant to slowly wear down the opposing team, and Discharge can spread paralysis on fast threats, such as Misdreavus. Giga Drain rounds off Joltik's coverage and provides much-needed recovery. In the last slot, Thunder Wave can be used to guarantee paralysis on opponents that aren't Ground-type. Volt Switch, however, provides a scouting move and works well in combination with Discharge.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread gives Joltik a odd-numbered HP stat to minimize damage from Stealth Rock. The defensive spread with a Bold Nature is useful for switching into Fighting-type attacks. It also gives Joltik a chance to survive two Brave Birds from Murkrow and retaliate with an Electric-type attack. Special Defense investment provides Joltik with the ability to switch into Grass-type attacks more easily while the Special Attack EVs boost its offensive presence. Modest is an option to deal more damage, as is Calm to balance its defenses, but those natures won't make any notable difference in damage dealt or given, while the listed Bold nature will significantly help in taking physical attacks. Either of the two listed abilities can be used, as both are equally situational. Oran Berry users are uncommon, so Unnerve won't be helping too much, and getting into Swarm range would only slightly boost Bug Buzz, which won't be enough because this set lacks power. This set has many other possible move choices, such as Disable and Sucker Punch, but paralysis and scouting are usually superior to situational niche moves.</p>

<p>Having a Rapid Spin user is mandatory. Drilbur can set up Stealth Rock, while Staryu's Speed and offenses enable it to revenge kill threats weakened by Joltik. Tentacool has high Special Defense, allowing it to tank special attacks aimed at Joltik; can spread Toxic to wear down special walls, such as Lileep and Porygon; and use Knock Off to get rid of Eviolite. Ground-type Pokemon in general can help Joltik defeat Magnemite, a relatively common Joltik counter. Chinchou and Golett can defeat Magnemite one-on-one as well, so they are the top choices for teammates. Knock Off users can help Joltik into wearing the opponent down and they benefit from the paralysis spread by Joltik, as they tend to be slow and durable. Mienfoo can threaten special walls with its Fighting-type STAB, while Vullaby can run Taunt to prevent recovery which builds up entry hazard damage. As this set causes a lot of switches, entry hazard setters are good partners: Dwebble can defeat Fire-type Pokemon and set up Stealth Rock and Spikes at the same time. Defensive Steel-types are difficult to handle for Joltik, so bulky Magnemite makes for a very good partner. As Joltik can switch into Fighting-types and deal heavy damage to them, Pokemon that benefit from seeing them gone or weakened are good partners. Swords Dance Pawniard and Curse Lickitung are some decent examples of such Pokemon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Joltik has a wide movepool, allowing it to run many different sets. A set with Substitute and three attacks coupled with Swarm and a pinch Berry might sound devastating in theory, but it is hard to pull off, as Joltik's Speed is not enough against common threats such as Misdreavus and Murkrow that won't switch out from it. A set running Substitute and Disable is very useful, as most Pokemon carry only one super effective move to hit Joltik with. However, Gastly outclasses it in this role, sporting superior Speed and three useful immunities to make better use of a set like this one. As surprising as it can be, Joltik, unlike most Electric-types, has a wide physical movepool, including X-Scissor, Wild Charge, Sucker Punch, and other coverage options, but Joltik should make use of its superior Special Attack, as it won't hit hard enough even with a relatively powerful attack.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Stealth Rock is the most prominent obstacle for any Bug-type, and Joltik is no exception. The best counter for Joltik is Magnemite due to its resistances to all of its common attacks and it can hit Joltik back with Hidden Power Fire for super effective damage. Any Fire-type can deal with Joltik, but most of them are frail and can't comfortably take a Modest Life Orb-boosted Thunderbolt. However, Numel won't mind any of Joltik's attacks and can use it as setup bait. Rock-types under Sandstorm can survive Giga Drain and send Joltik packing. Lileep is hit hard by Bug Buzz, but it does survive and can retaliate with Ancientpower or Toxic. A Fighting-type running a Rock-type coverage move can decimate Joltik and score a surprise KO on its would-be check.</p>

<p>Oddly enough, Joltik can't defeat Murkrow, as it will either be heavily damaged by Brave Bird or outright KOed by Heat Wave, meaning it loses no matter what the scenario. Choice Scarf Murkrow in particular outspeeds the standard Choice Scarf Joltik and can KO with Heat Wave. In fact, every Choice Scarf user that hits at least 17 Speed, such as Gastly, can outspeed and defeat the Choice Scarf set, as it is very frail. However, this set is the most difficult to counter because it can survive most priority attacks and will usually switch out after scoring a KO. Misdreavus is bulky enough to survive any hit and can wear Joltik down until it's defeated. Along those lines, common special walls, such as Porygon, Lickitung, and Munchlax, don't mind any of Joltik's attacks and can stall out Life Orb damage or set up on it. Phazers and Clear Smog users can remove its Agility boosts, as most of them are bulky enough to survive its attacks. If you are not running any of those, paralysis is generally the best way to handle it, with Prankster Murkrow and Cottonee being able to bypass its heightened Speed and proceed to paralyze it, though they are unable to switch into Joltik easily. If all else fails, Joltik's frailty and lack of recovery mean it will inevitably fall at some point in the battle.</p>