[Overview]

<p>Larvesta is a very interesting option in Little Cup. It has an outstanding Attack stat, a powerful STAB move in Flare Blitz, and access to Wild Charge for good coverage. These attributes make Larvesta seem like an amazing offensive sweeper; however, the Torch Pokemon works much better as a tank. Flame Body, combined with decent bulk and a recovery move, makes this bug an excellent defensive pivot. However, Larvesta has one of the worst defensive typings in the game; its Fire / Bug typing gives it a 4x weakness to Rock-type moves, or more importantly, Stealth Rock. Being weak to Water- and Flying-type attacks does not help either, considering they are very common attacking types in Little Cup. No Pokemon is without its flaws, however, and Larvesta's pros definitely outweigh its cons. If your team struggles with Fighting- or Grass-types, look no further than Larvesta.</p>

[SET]
name: Eviolite
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Flare Blitz
move 3: Morning Sun
move 4: Will-O-Wisp / Wild Charge
item: Eviolite
ability: Flame Body
nature: Adamant
evs: 76 HP / 236 Atk / 156 Def / 36 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is definitely Larvesta's most effective set. It has the bulk needed to take many hits and plenty of power to strike its opponents. It walls most Fighting- and Grass-types, such as Mienfoo, Snover, Timburr, and Ferroseed. These qualities, along with Flame Body and a reliable recovery move in Morning Sun, make Larvesta an excellent supporting teammate. U-turn is a great STAB move as it allows Larvesta to gain momentum for its team. Coming off of an Attack stat of 19, a STAB Flare Blitz will put a major dent in anything that doesn't resist it. Recoil from Flare Blitz and any other damage is recovered by Morning Sun, giving Larvesta greater longevity. The final slot is a choice between a reliable way of spreading burn or coverage. Will-O-Wisp is often the better choice, as it gives Larvesta a way of directly burning the opponent instead of relying on Flame Body's 30% chance. However, if you feel that you would rather have more coverage, Wild Charge is a decent choice, being able to hit Staryu and other Water-types on the switch for a nasty surprise. The extra recoil can be a burden, but again, Morning Sun neutralizes that problem.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The listed EV spread and nature maintains an offensive presence while still being able to withstand hits. However, if you prefer more bulk, moving some EVs from Attack to its defenses could work. This is generally not recommended though, as it is the combination of power and bulk that makes this set effective, and Larvesta is naturally bulky.</p>

<p>There are several Pokemon that give Larvesta trouble because of its common weaknesses. Water-, Flying-, and Rock-types such as Staryu, Chinchou, Murkrow, and Rhyhorn can all hit Larvesta hard with super effective STAB attacks. Stealth Rock is also an obvious weakness. As such, Staryu makes a near perfect partner for this bug. Staryu is the best Rapid Spin user in Little Cup and synergizes well with Larvesta. Tentacool can also provide Rapid Spin support for Larvesta, but it can't use Toxic Spikes as it would conflict with Will-O-Wisp and Flame Body. Lileep makes a fantastic partner; it can counter most Water-types, helps form a strong Fire / Water / Grass core along with Staryu, and provides Stealth Rock support. Rhyhorn, Tirtouga, Omanyte, and other Rock-types can beat Murkrow that lack Hidden Power Grass, and Porygon can also check Murkrow. Chinchou can beat Staryu and also has access to Volt Switch, which is great alongside Larvesta's U-turn. Bulkier Chinchou variants are also good checks to Murkrow. Pokemon that enjoy having Fighting- or Grass-types maimed also make effective partners.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Larvesta is capable of running other sets, but they aren't as viable as the one listed. Larvesta can utilize a Choice Scarf to become a decent revenge killer or scouter with U-turn. It can also attempt to sweep by raising its Speed with Flame Charge, but it doesn't have the power to break through some common walls, such as Hippopotas. Sunny Day can be used to boost Flare Blitz's power and get rid of sandstorm or hail. Toxic is an option if you'd rather poison your opponent than burn them. If Chinchou is a concern, Return can be used to hit it for decent damage on the switch. However, Larvesta still shouldn't take on Chinchou one on one. Bug Bite can work over U-turn, but the momentum that can be gained from U-turn is preferred. Finally, Larvesta has a decent Special Attack stat and special movepool, with access to moves such as Calm Mind, Bug Buzz, Fire Blast, Psychic, and Hidden Power.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Unfortunately for Larvesta, its typing gives it several weaknesses. Stealth Rock is Larvesta's biggest nightmare, taking away half of its health every time it switches in. If you can keep Stealth Rock on the field, Larvesta should not have a problem. Chinchou can easily defeat Larvesta, as it resists Flare Blitz, can regain its HP if it switches in on Wild Charge, and can KO Larvesta with its STAB Water-type attacks. Staryu can outspeed and OHKO Larvesta with Hydro Pump, but it can't switch in on Wild Charge. Murkrow and Drilbur can both outspeed and OHKO Larvesta, but they must be wary of a burn. Rhyhorn walls Larvesta, but still has to be careful of Flame Body. Barboach resists Flare Blitz, is immune to Wild Charge, and has access to STAB Water-type attacks. Mienfoo that carry Stone Edge are a nasty surprise for Larvesta, but, again, have to watch out for Flame Body's burn chance. Scraggy with Head Smash or Stone Edge can OHKO Larvesta, and do not fear Flame Body as much because of Shed Skin. Ponyta is bulky enough to switch in and hits hard with Flare Blitz. Tirtouga can set up on Larvesta if it lacks Wild Charge; however, it still has to watch out for a burn from Flame Body or Will-O-Wisp. Misdreavus can set up on Larvesta and doesn't fear a burn. Hippopotas walls Larvesta and can hit hard with Earthquake. Tentacool resists both of Larvesta's STAB attacks, and can beat it if it lacks Wild Charge. Taillow and Teddiursa don't worry about being burned and can hit Larvesta very hard.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Larvesta receives Swarm from the Dream World. Swarm is close to useless on Larvesta, especially when compared to Flame Body. You shouldn't be using Swarm at all, as the burn chance is much more useful.</p>