[Overview]

<p>Munchlax is a force to be reckoned with in Little Cup. It has a high Attack stat, a great Special Defense stat, an impeccable HP stat, and to top it all off it's incredibly cute. Sprinkle on an incredible movepool and you have a Pokemon that's ready to take on many of Little Cup's hardest hitting special attackers, such as Snover and Misdreavus. However, this obese cutie is not without its faults. Normal typing is a mixed bag in Little Cup. On one hand, Munchlax is immune to Shadow Ball, an extremely common attack in LC; on the other, LC is filled with tons of Fighting-types, most of which can take out Munchlax with ease. Don't let these faults deter you from using Munchlax, as it can prove to be an incredible asset to your team with the right support.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Tank
move 1: Return
move 2: Fire Punch
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Pursuit / Focus Punch
item: Eviolite
ability: Thick Fat
nature: Adamant
evs: 236 Atk / 36 Def / 236 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Say hello to Munchlax's most dangerous set. With maximum Attack investment and an Adamant nature, Return does serious damage to most Pokemon that don't resist it. Fire Punch hits Steel-types super effectively and is capable of OHKOing Ferroseed and 2HKOing Bronzor. Earthquake hits Chinchou and Ponyta incredibly hard, as it is able to 2HKO or OHKO the aforementioned Pokemon, depending on what EV spread they run. The final moveslot should be tailored towards your team's needs. Pursuit can be used for a likely OHKO on Misdreavus if it's switching out and has taken Stealth Rock damage. On the other hand, Focus Punch is great for OHKOing an overconfident Scraggy that might switch into Munchax.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread takes full advantage of Munchlax's stat distribution. An Adamant nature and maximum Attack investment are necessary to ensure that Munchlax 2HKOes most Pokemon with the appropriate coverage move. 236 Special Defense EVs ensure that Munchlax retains excellent special bulk in order to hard counter Snover, Misdreavus, and even Gastly. The rest of the EVs are dumped into Defense to ensure that Munchlax is able to take some physical attacks. Speaking of physical attacks, Munchlax's ability, Thick Fat, allows it to check Larvesta and Ponyta despite Munchlax's mediocre Defense stat. Eviolite is needed to ensure that Munchlax can take hits throughout the course of the battle.</p>

<p>As a Normal-type in a tier plagued with Fighting-types, Munchlax certainly needs partners that can defeat the likes of Mienfoo, Timburr, and other powerful Fighting-types. Misdreavus makes for an excellent Mienfoo switch-in, as it is capable of burning the aforementioned Fighting-type with Will-O-Wisp and setting up Nasty Plot, while fearing only the rare Payback. Otherwise, it can just take Mienfoo out with Shadow Ball. Larvesta resists Fighting-type moves, can burn Fighting-types with Flame Body, and does hefty damage with a STAB Flare Blitz. More defensive partners include Shelmet, who defeats all Fighting-types lacking Stone Edge and also setup Spikes, Tentacool, who can set up Toxic Spikes, and Hippopotas, who can shuffle with Yawn, set up Stealth Rock, and support your team with a permanent sandstorm.</p>

<p>Munchlax is a Pokemon with a huge movepool; consequently it has some other viable options Body Slam is a weaker alternative to Return, but it has a big upside: a 30% chance of paralyzing the opponent. Seed Bomb is useful for taking down Tirtouga, one of the only Pokemon that has nothing to fear from Munchlax; it is also useful for hitting Frillish. Finally, Rock Slide hits Larvesta super effectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As previously mentioned, Munchlax has a ton of cool options. Stockpile is an interesting option, but in a fast-paced metagame like Little Cup, it's hard for a Normal-type to make full use of the move. Whirlwind is useful on more defensive teams, as Munchlax forces switches with ease. Toxic can be used to cripple bulky Water-types, especially Frillish, but Munchlax 2HKOes most of them anyway so stick to Return. Munchlax also has access to Sunny Day and Rain Dance; these moves should be utilized on weather teams looking for the right weather supporter.</p>

<p>Munchlax also has some cool sets it can run. A Substitute and Focus Punch set is a decent option for putting huge dents into nearly anything that switches into Munchlax, namely Lileep, one of Munchlax's best checks. A RestTalk set can be used, but a fast-paced metagame like Little Cup doesn't make such a passive strategy incredibly viable. A Curse set is feasible for boosting Munchlax's mediocre Defense and incredible Attack stats, and gives Munchlax greater sweeping potential. Finally, an Oran Berry and Recycle set gives Munchlax great longevity, but remember that Munchlax won't be taking hits incredibly well without Eviolite.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Like all Normal-types in Little Cup, Munchlax fears Fighting-types. Mienfoo can take a Return from Munchlax, OHKO it with Hi Jump Kick, get rid of Munchlax's Eviolite with Knock Off, or maintain momentum by forcing a switch with U-turn. Then, Mienfoo can gain HP back simply by switching out thanks to Regenerator. Scraggy can switch into any of Munchlax's common moves apart from Focus Punch and use Dragon Dance on the switch, or simply take Munchlax out with Hi Jump Kick. Timburr can set up with Bulk Up and take down Munchlax with Drain Punch, while recovering any HP lost. Lileep is one of the best defensive counters to Munchlax as it has access to reliable recovery and great defenses. Similarly, Slowpoke and Frillish can take on Munchlax if it lacks the rare Seed Bomb.</p>