[Overview]

<p>Previously a mainstay on DPP rain teams, Omanyte has become a dangerous threat in its own right with its new move, Shell Smash. Although the introduction of Eviolite has made it more difficult to take advantage of this monstrous boosting move, Omanyte can still easily punch holes through teams. It can also take advantage of Eviolite itself and run a Spikes set, as Omanyte's very impressive base 100 Defense stat allows it to comfortably set up on many physical attackers. Omanyte remains usable as a rain sweeper, but it usually benefits more from Shell Smash.</p>

[SET]
name: Shell Smash
move 1: Shell Smash
move 2: Hydro Pump / Surf
move 3: AncientPower / Earth Power
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Electric
item: Eviolite / Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 36 Def / 200 SpA / 240 Spe
ivs: 2 Atk / 30 SpA / 30 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Omanyte becomes quite a threatening sweeper with Shell Smash, which allows it to reach ridiculous levels of power and Speed in one turn. Hydro Pump is Omanyte's STAB move of choice, as its raw power can devastate teams. Even 236 / 236 Careful Eviolite Munchlax will almost always fall to a +2 Life Orb Hydro Pump after Stealth Rock and Spikes. Surf is a more consistent option, however, and still nets plenty of KOs. AncientPower gives Omanyte a way to deal with bulky Water-types such as Frillish, who is 2HKOed at +2 with Life Orb. If Omanyte can nab an AncientPower boost after a Shell Smash, the game is usually over. Earth Power is also worth considering, as it has the same Base Power as AncientPower even after factoring in STAB, and has the added bonus of doing more damage to Tentacool as well as OHKOing Chinchou with no effort. It also OHKOes Croagunk, though Croagunk can easily OHKO Omanyte with Vacuum Wave, making this a risky endeavor. Hidden Power Fire OHKOes all variants of Ferroseed, who would otherwise be a hard stop to this set, while Hidden Power Electric is an option to deal with bulky Water-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Eviolite is the preferred item as it allows Omanyte to take hits better before setting up and neutralizes the Defense drops of Shell Smash. The given EVs and Modest nature maximize Omanyte's offensive potential, although some EVs can be shifted from Special Attack to defensive stats in order to improve survivability. Additionally, a Timid nature can be used in order to beat nearly all Choice Scarf users after a boost.</p>

<p>Dual screen support is heavily recommended, as it increases the number of opponents Omanyte can comfortably set up on, and also allows Life Orb to be used with much less risk. Bronzor can set up both screens and also provide a Ground-type immunity and a Grass-type resistance. Entry hazard support is also recommended to further aid Omanyte's sweep. Ferroseed synergizes well with Omanyte defensively and supplies crucial entry hazards. Hippopotas is an excellent user of Stealth Rock and also supplies Omanyte with sand, making it far more specially bulky. However, both share a heavy weakness to Grass-types, so carrying a partner that can handle those with ease is recommended. Houndour can trap and kill Frillish, who is a major threat to Omanyte. It can also bait in Croagunk with Dark-type attacks and the hit it hard with Fire-type STAB because of Croagunk's pseudo weakness to Fire. Wyanut can use Encore and Tickle to make its opponent's attacks very weak, giving Omanyte the opportunity to use Shell Smash unimpeded. Rain support is also useful as it gives Omanyte another Speed boost with Swift Swim and an extra STAB boost to Hydro Pump or Surf.</p>

[SET]
name: Spiker
move 1: Spikes / Toxic Spikes
move 2: Toxic Spikes / Stealth Rock
move 3: Scald
move 4: Hidden Power Fire
item: Eviolite
ability: Swift Swim / Shell Armor
nature: Calm / Bold
evs: 236 HP / 36 Def / 236 SpD
ivs: 2 Atk / 30 SpA / 30 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Omanyte's natural physical bulk in order to stack entry hazards. Spikes are the best form of entry hazard and are highly recommended as Toxic Spikes are easily absorbed or ignored through immunities. However, they are devastating to teams that don't carry a Rapid Spin user or grounded Poison-type. It should be noted that only one layer of Toxic Spikes is recommended against offensive teams, as sweepers rarely stay in long enough to accumulate much damage from deadly poison. Stealth Rock is another very important entry hazard, stripping off large chunks of health from Pokemon that are weak to it. Scald enables Omanyte to burn opponents, making it even harder to crack physically. Hidden Power Fire is used to 2HKO Ferroseed, who would otherwise be quite threatening to this set with its STAB Grass-type moves.<p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Special Defense investment is used as Omanyte already has massive natural physical bulk. However, a Bold nature can be used over Calm to take super effective physical hits more easily. Eviolite further improves that bulk and helps to make up for Omanyte's fairly poor defensive typing. Shell Armor blocks critical hits, which allows Omanyte to set up entry hazards without fear of bad luck ending its support early. Swift Swim is also an option on a rain team, as in rain Omanyte reaches 20 Speed, allowing it to outspeed the very common 19 Speed Pokemon that inhabit Little Cup. Rest and Sleep Talk can be used with Spikes and Scald in order to increase the number of times Omanyte can set up entry hazards. Toxic can be used to cripple physical walls, though Toxic Spikes generally does this more efficiently once the wall has been forced out once. Protect can allow Omanyte to build up poison damage on opponents and scout their movesets. Rain Dance can also be used by Omanyte itself with a Damp Rock in order to provide both rain and entry hazards for its teammates.</p>

<p>Hippopotas's Sand Stream is of great help to Omanyte, as it bolsters Omanyte's Special Defense even further. Hippopotas also learns Stealth Rock and Roar, giving Omanyte the moveslots to abuse both Spikes and Toxic Spikes while also providing phazing support to take advantage of them. In that regard Munchlax and Lickitung can act as special sponges while also acting as phazers. Ferroseed also pairs well defensively with Omanyte, as both 4x resist each other's 4x weakness, and both carry every entry hazard between them. Duskull can block Rapid Spin and also provide an immunity to Fighting-type moves, something Omanyte appreciates greatly. Fighting-types such as Scraggy and Timburr can easily set up on this set, so carrying a teammate that can threaten them is recommended. Choice Scarf Doduo is able to revenge kill both with its super effective STAB Brave Bird.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Omanyte can also run an offensive Rain Dance set, though this is generally outclassed by Shell Smash. Ice Beam can be used over Hidden Power Fire on a rain set in order to kill Grass-types. Smack Down can ground a Flying-type or Levitate Pokemon such as Misdreavus, enabling Diglett to trap and kill them. Haze can be used to reset stat changes. Iron Defense makes Omanyte even more difficult to break physically. Tickle can weaken opponents to the point where they can't even scratch Omanyte, but Omanyte has no reliable recovery moves, making it inadvisable in most situations. Whirlpool can be used for a trapping set, potentially allowing Omanyte to gain a free Shell Smash boost against something that can't harm it. Brine can finish off weakened opponents who would normally be able to take a Surf or a Scald, although Hydro Pump does nearly the same amount of damage without the need to first lower the opponent's health to below half. Knock Off can be used to remove an opponent's Eviolite or Life Orb, crippling walls and sweepers respectively.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Croagunk is the closest thing there is to a counter to Omanyte, as Dry Skin and its Fighting typing allow it to ignore Omanyte's STAB moves. It can also promptly OHKO Omanyte after a Shell Smash with Vacuum Wave. It must switch in with caution, however, as Earth Power will easily KO any Croagunk not holding an Eviolite. Since Eviolite is most commonly used on Bulk Up variants, Omanyte will still OHKO Croagunk with a +2 Earth Power, without fear of priority. Timburr can also revenge kill Omanyte with Mach Punch. Ferroseed hard counters any Omanyte not using Hidden Power Fire, and can effortlessly kill it with Bullet Seed or Seed Bomb. Frillish takes special hits like a champ and can hit Omanyte back with Scald.</p>