[Overview]

<p>Pineco sports great defenses and respectable HP, which allows it to take advantage of its vast support movepool. Pineco can lay down all three entry hazards and spin opposing entry hazards away, which is an asset to most teams. While Explosion's nerf makes it a less attractive option for Pineco, an improved Sturdy effectively gives Pineco a free Focus Sash and allows it to do its job more effectively. With new competition from Ferroseed, Pineco might seem outclassed, but it has an advantage in the form of Rapid Spin, as well as resistances to the Fighting- and Ground-type attacks that plague the metagame.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Stealth Rock / Spikes
move 3: Payback / Protect
move 4: Bug Bite
item: Eviolite / Oran Berry
ability: Sturdy
nature: Impish
evs: 196 HP / 76 Atk / 196 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Pineco's great physical bulk and support movepool. Pineco can easily switch in on a physical attack, and then proceed to set up entry hazards or spin them away. Stealth Rock is the primary choice of hazard because it strips common Rock-weak Pokemon, such as Snover and Ponyta, of 25% of their HP. Spikes can be used instead of Stealth Rock, as Stealth Rock is a common move and can probably be set up by another member of your team. Rapid Spin is a valuable asset to Pineco's movepool as it gets rid of entry hazards the opponent has set up, which is useful for supporting the aforementioned Rock-weak Pokemon should you carry them on your own team. Payback hits Ghost-type Pokemon, such as Gastly, for super effective damage, and prevents them from completely walling Pineco. Protect is an option for scouting the opponent's attacks, and can potentially thwart attempts to Trick it a Choice item. It is also useful for gaining an additional turn of damage from hail, sandstorm, or poison. However, be wary of Pokemon with access to setup moves, as they can take advantage of Protect. Finally, Bug Bite steals Oran Berries, which are commonly used in Little Cup; by doing so, Pineco can replenish its HP and continue to support the team. Keep in mind that with the advent of Eviolite, Oran Berries are not as common as they once were.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Sturdy acts like a Focus Sash, and ensures that Pineco has at least one turn to set up entry hazards or use Rapid Spin. The EVs and Eviolite ensure that Pineco is as bulky as possible, and the remainder are invested in Attack to add some power. Toxic Spikes is an option that can poison all grounded Pokemon; it can be used in conjunction with Protect to increase the amount of poison damage that the opposing Pokemon takes.</p>

<p>Sweepers who appreciate opponents weakened by entry hazards, such as Scraggy, make good partners for Pineco. Fire-type Pokemon such as Ponyta, Litwick, and Houndour can absorb Fire-type attacks aimed at Pineco, and appreciate the Rapid Spin support that Pineco provides. Litwick can additionally act as a spinblocker for Pineco. Houndour, in addition to possessing Flash Fire, can also take out the Ghost-types that block Rapid Spin. However, it cannot switch in against Frillish due to the threat of Surf. Stunky is a good teammate as well because of its ability to trap and kill Ghost-types; its lack of weaknesses to Water and Fighting gives it distinct advantages over Houndour as a trapper. Pineco's rather poor Special Defense means that special walls such as Munchlax deserve a mention; they can take the special attacks aimed at Pineco, while Pineco can take the physical attacks aimed at them in return.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Reflect and Light Screen are options to make Pineco a dual screener, but Natu and Bronzor do this better. Bulldoze can be used over Payback to damage Fire-type Pokemon and lower their Speed stat, but it needs to be used as they switch in, since they can threaten to KO Pineco with a super effective Fire-type attack. If it runs Bulldoze, Pineco is walled by Levitating Ghost-type Pokemon such as Gastly, which can set up and attempt to sweep. Pineco has access to Gravity, which could be used when combined with Spikes and Toxic Spikes to damage previously immune Pokemon.<p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ghost-type Pokemon such as Gastly and Frillish block Pineco's Rapid Spin, while also boasting a resistance to its STAB attack. Strong physical attackers such as Aron can dispose of Pineco with powerful moves such as Head Smash, but won't be able to prevent it from setting up Stealth Rock or using Rapid Spin, thanks to Sturdy. Pineco can be used as setup bait by Pokemon such as Scraggy and Pawniard, as its attacks cannot damage them in the slightest. Cottonee, with its priority Taunt, can shut down Pineco, as it relies on setting up entry hazards. However, Cottonee cannot hope to go head-to-head against Pineco, as Pineco can attack Cottonee with a super effective Bug Bite and use Rapid Spin to get rid of Leech Seed. Natu can reflect Pineco's entry hazards back onto the user's side with its Magic Bounce ability; the best Pineco can do is to Rapid Spin those hazards away and switch to an appropriate counter.</p>