[Overview]

<p>While Remoraid appears a bit fishy at first, a closer look reveals that Remoraid is an interesting Pokemon. Amazing attacking stats and Speed mean that Remoraid has the potential to eat teams up. Being a Water-type helps in this regard, as its STAB has nice coverage. It gets even better when you realize that Remoraid has access to the most powerful Water-type move in existence, Water Spout, as well as Waterfall to take care of special walls. Combine this with excellent coverage moves such as Ice Beam, Seed Bomb, Fire Blast, and even Gunk Shot, and one realizes that Remoraid can be an immense threat to unprepared teams. If there was one thing holding Remoraid back from greatness, it would probably be faster Pokemon and users of priority; to put it bluntly, Remoraid has the defenses of a wet paper bag. Overall, Remoraid is a great Pokemon with few drawbacks, so definitely try it out and be prepared to face it.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Choice Scarf
move 1: Water Spout
move 2: Surf
move 3: Fire Blast
move 4: Hidden Power Ground / Hidden Power Grass
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Sniper
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 236 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Remoraid is one of the fastest users of Choice Scarf in Little Cup and can blow through unprepared teams thanks to Water Spout, which sits at a cool 150 Base Power when Remoraid is at full health. However, if Remoraid manages to lose a significant amount of its HP, Surf is there to provide consistent damage. Fire Blast allows Remoraid to demolish Ferroseed and Croagunk, who is immune to Water Spout thanks to Dry Skin, on the switch in. In the final moveslot, Hidden Power Ground lets Remoraid hit Croagunk and Chinchou, both of whom can take a Water Spout and hit back hard with priority and STAB Electric-type attacks, respectively. Hidden Power Grass is also an option in the final moveslot, allowing Remoraid to hit defensive Water-types, who would otherwise wall this set, hard.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Timid is the preferred nature on this set, as Remoraid will hit 25 Speed with a Choice Scarf attached, allowing it to to outspeed the entire unboosted metagame as well as most users of Choice Scarf. Max EVs in Special Attack and Speed let Remoraid hit hard and fast. Sniper is the superior ability over Hustle, as Hustle only boosts physical moves. Sniper is very handy whenever it activates, however infrequent that is, thanks to the boost it gives it critical hits. Ice Beam is a potential option over Fire Blast to hit Dragon- and Flying-types, and hits Croagunk for neutral damage.</p>

<p>Given that Remoraid has very little to speak of in the defensive department, it appreciates teammates that can soak up super effective attacks aimed at it. Chinchou is an interesting example, taking Electric attacks without breaking a sweat thanks to Volt Absorb, and hitting back hard with its own STAB attacks. Since Remoraid can put even dedicated walls to a stop with Water Spout, sweepers are nice partners for Remoraid. Gastly is a good example, being able to wreck the opponent after Munchlax is 3HKOed by Water Spout.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Choice
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Seed Bomb
move 3: Return
move 4: Water Spout / Fire Blast
item: Choice Scarf / Choice Band
ability: Hustle
nature: Naive
evs: 236 Atk / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Remoraid can use special attacks easily, it can also hit physically thanks to its Base 65 Attack, excellent physical movepool, and access to Hustle, which gives its attacks a huge boost. Waterfall is Remoraid's STAB move, hitting very hard thanks to Hustle. Return, when combined with Waterfall, gives Remoraid almost perfect neutral coverage, only missing out on Ferroseed and Frillish. Seed Bomb allows Remoraid to easily take on Water-types, namely Frillish with Water Absorb, who can wall Remoraid. In the final moveslot, Water Spout does massive damage, even without any investment. However, Fire Blast is another interesting option, allowing it to maul any Grass-types switching in. It's accuracy is also not affected by Hustle, which is a big plus given its fairly shaky 85% accuracy.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Jolly nature gives Remoraid as much Speed as possible, hitting 25 Speed with a Choice Scarf, though Naive is an option if you don't want Water Spout's power to be reduced. The given EVs maximize Remoraid's Attack and Speed. Choice Band is an option over Choice Scarf, giving Remoraid the ability to completely demolish teams with strength that is equal to that of Choice Band Cranidos. In the final moveslot, Gunk Shot is and interesting option, hitting Grass-types who otherwise wall Remoraid ridiculously hard. However, with Hustle, it's accuracy is very poor, so only use it if you feel that Dame Fortune is on your side.</p>

<p>This set is walled by Lileep, so teammates who can get rid of it are nice additions. Scraggy pairs exceptionally well, as it not only can get rid of Lileep, but also can benefit from Remoraid's ability to get rid of walls. Munchlax is also an interesting teammate, as it takes care of many special attackers who would like to knock out Remoraid. Mantyke is another example, easily absorbing the priority moves which can take out Remoraid.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Choice Scarf
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Water Spout
move 3: Seed Bomb
move 4: Fire Blast
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Hustle
nature: Naughty
evs: 236 SpA / 236 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to Hustle and its powerful special movepool, Remoraid can easily become a mixed attacker. Waterfall is the main physical STAB here, smashing into special walls aiming to take a Water Spout. Likewise, Water Spout is Remoraid's main special STAB, and should be used early on for greater effect, laying waste to anything that doesn't resist it. Seed Bomb is used in the third slot to take care of any Water-types trying to tank the two aforementioned attacks. Lastly, Fire Blast easily dispatches Grass-types such as Ferroseed as well as Croagunk, which can take every other attack Remoraid can throw at it.</p>

<p>A Naughty nature gives as much power to Remoraid's Attack as possible, as it has no investment. There is no need for investment thanks to Hustle, which gives a nice boost to Remoraid's physical attacks. Max Special Attack and Speed EVs give as much power to Water Spout as possible, as it is Remoraid's main attack.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With a Choice Scarf, the given EVs, and a Naughty nature, Remoraid hits 24 Speed, as opposed to 25 from a Speed boosting nature. However, 24 Speed is still very fast, outpacing most of the metagame. Users of Stealth Rock are helpful to aid Remoraid in wallbreaking, as it helps Remoraid more easily secure some key KOs. Remoraid can easily open the path for many sweepers to clean up the remains of teams it has run through, such as Elekid, who has nice coverage but really appreciates some of its key targets to be weakened. Water Absorb users are a threat as they can soak up a Water Spout, making Ferroseed and Munchlax nice teammates to get rid of them. Lastly, Ice Beam is an interesting option if you're having a problem with Dragon-types.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Remoraid has access to Acid Spray, which can cause a lot of switches due to the severe drop in Special Defense it brings to the target. However, Remoraid is better left outright attacking than setting up due to its frailty. Remoraid has a wide movepool which it can use, including Signal Beam, Psychic, Bullet Seed, Charge Beam, and Rock Blast. However, it will have a tough time fitting any of these on a set due to the coverage Remoraid needs. Remoraid has the potential to run a set with 3 attacks and Substitute along with a Life Orb, though it doesn't have the bulk to pull it off effectively. Life Orb along with Thunder Wave is interesting as well, hitting anything switching in with paralysis and allowing Remoraid to outspeed the target. Finally, Flamethrower is a good option over Fire Blast anywhere it is mentioned if one feels that accuracy is an issue.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>When considering a check to Remoraid, one must keep in mind the just how powerful it is and how much coverage it gets. Pokemon with a Water-type immunity and decent defenses will usually be the best counters to Remoraid, seeing as it will be using Water Spout most of the time. Lileep is an excellent example, carrying the ability Storm Drain, which nullifies Water-types attacks. Lileep can easily take out Remoraid with Giga Drain. Slowpoke, while lacking Water Absorb, is also a fine counter to Remoraid because it is only 4HKOed by Water Spout and 3HKOed by Hidden Power Grass. This allows it to use Slack Off and do whatever it pleases. Munchlax also works in this case, and though it is 3HKOed by Water Spout, it can KO Remoraid with ThunderPunch, and has Pursuit if the fish decides to switch. Ferroseed also gets a mention for resisting every move that the physical Choice set carries. If you don't carry a defensive option listed above, you can still take care of Remoraid. Priority moves are usually the way to go offensively, as they bypass Remoraid's Speed and take advantage of its frailty. Status moves can also cripple Remoraid, as they will often leave it either weak or slow, making it easy prey for revenge killers. As a final note, Dragon-types resist every move on the Mixed Choice Scarf set, allowing them to come in and go to town.</p>