[Overview]

<p>Just for starters, if you came to this analysis page looking for a good or even decent Chlorophyll sweeper to use on your new Sunny Day team, then you've come to the wrong place. Although Seedot has just enough viability to earn an honest analysis, it should not be considered for any seriously competitive Little Cup team. One look at its horrible base stats should tell you why. The only thing that is keeping this evil acorn from falling back into the abyss of unusable Pokemon is its niche of utilizing Chlorophyll, Growth, and Explosion, a combination which no other Little Cup Pokemon possesses. If you're looking for a Pokemon that would be hilarious to defeat your friend's mediocre Little Cup team with, then look no further, because Seedot is ready to rumble.</p>

[SET]
name: Growth
move 1: Growth
move 2: SolarBeam
move 3: Explosion
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Sunny Day
item: Life Orb
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Naive
evs: 40 Atk / 36 Def / 200 SpA / 200 Spe
ivs: 3 HP / 30 Atk / 30 SpA / 30 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The main objective of this set is to find a way to pull off one Growth, then proceed to quite possibly sweep, or just explode when low on health. Even though Seedot has a Life Orb, don't go trying to pounce on anything without setting up with Growth first, as Seedot would likely fail to do significant damage and get smashed in the face. However, after a Growth, its STAB SolarBeam OHKOes or 2HKOes anything that doesn't resist the attack or has huge special bulk. Hidden Power Fire is used to take out the Grass- and Steel-types who resist SolarBeam. Finally, Explosion not only sets Seedot apart from most other Chlorophyll sweepers, but also allows it to deal massive damage when it has no other options. Explosion also allows Seedot to take out a troublesome Pokemon and give a teammate a free switch in. Keep in mind, however, that Explosion should only be used when Seedot is low on health and has acquired a Growth boost, since it no longer halves the opponent's defenses.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Seedot's Special Attack and Speed while adding one more point to its Attack and decent Defense. With a Naive nature and the given EV spread, Seedot hits 26 Speed in the sun, allowing it to outspeed Choice Scarf users with 17 Speed, such as Chinchou. With Life Orb draining its HP so quickly and no Eviolite to soften blows, it should be noted that Seedot usually faints in a few turns after being brought out. Nature Power (which turns into Earthquake in Wi-Fi battles) or Hidden Power Rock can also be used over Explosion to take down Fire- or Flying-type Pokemon more reliably, but Seedot will then lose one of its main niches: the use of Explosion. Alternatively, you could juice up Explosion by transferring a stat point from Special Attack or Speed to Attack to increase the power of Explosion, allowing Seedot to OHKO most Lickitung. However, doing so reduces the number of Pokemon which Seedot can outspeed or OHKO with SolarBeam. Obviously, Seedot also requires team support to have any chance of pulling off a sweep. Entry hazards will aid Seedot a lot, as they will weaken its counters and turn some crucial 2HKOs into OHKOs. Ferroseed comes to mind immediately, as it can set up Spikes with ease. It does compound Seedot's Fire-type weakness, however. Tentacool also pairs up well with Seedot, as it can sponge the Fire- and Ice-type attacks that blow Seedot away while setting up Toxic Spikes. Strong Fighting-types such as Scraggy can destroy Lickitung, who can check Seedot to an extent, making them great teammates as well. Seedot also greatly appreciates partners who can set up Sunny Day for it, preferably while holding Heat Rock.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Seedot doesn't have much in terms of other move options. Bullet Seed and Seed Bomb both provide a physical Grass-type STAB which could work with a more physically oriented set, but it does less damage than SolarBeam in most cases. However, if you do decide to go with a purely physical set, Swords Dance should be used over Growth so you don't get screwed over with a lesser boost if the weather happens to change. Nasty Plot could be used in the same vein for a specially attacking set as well. Giga Drain could be used if you want some relief from Life Orb recoil, but with Seedot's poor Special Attack stat, it will rarely be healing itself significantly. Synthesis might seem good on paper, but Seedot is just too frail to put it to good use.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Cloud Nine Lickitung and Swablu can both brush off SolarBeam and Hidden Power Fire, but must be wary of a +2 Explosion, as it will put a large dent in their HP. Bulky Flying-types such as Vullaby can handle Seedot with ease most of the time, but, once again, need to watch out for a boosted Explosion. Weather changers such as Snover and Hippopotas also screw over Seedot completely, forcing it to lock itself into charging up SolarBeam while they take it out or phaze it, respectively. The former does need to watch out Hidden Power, though, which will OHKO.</p>