[Overview]

<p>Shellos is a decent tank in Little Cup, with good defensive stats and access to Recover boosting its longevity by leaps and bounds. Combine that with a wonderful ability in Storm Drain, which gives it an immunity as well as the potential to boost its more than useable Special Attack, and Shellos certainly can dish out hits as well as it can take them. Though one may assume at first glance that Slowpoke is superior due to Regenerator and better stats, Shellos can easily differentiate itself from its Water-type brethren. Shellos, unlike Slowpoke, is not weak to common Dark-type moves and U-turn, and has a great niche in Clear Smog, which removes the opponent's boosts while bypassing Taunt, allowing it to effectively counter a sizable number of threats in Little Cup.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Surf / Scald
move 2: Clear Smog
move 3: Recover
move 4: Yawn / Toxic
item: Eviolite
ability: Storm Drain
nature: Bold
evs: 228 HP / 132 Def / 100 SpD / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Shellos is a powerful offensive presence on the field as one of Little Cup's premier bulky Water-types, thanks to its astounding defenses, which are even greater than that of Frillish. It sits at 27 HP and 21 in its defenses when Eviolite is factored in, making it one of the bulkiest Pokemon in Little Cup. Combine that with access to Recover, and Shellos is not going to be hit hard by very much. Shellos also has a decent Special Attack stat which allows it to hit many Pokemon for respectable damage with its STAB Water-type attacks. Surf is the primary option for its greater power, though Scald is a perfectly fine move to use over it.</p>

<p>Clear Smog allows Shellos to get rid of any boosts that the opponent may have acquired and bypass Taunt at the same time, stopping sweeps from the likes of Timburr cold when played correctly. While Clear Smog is great for causing switches in and of itself, Yawn gives the opponent even less of an incentive to stay in, racking up damage from any hazards that might be present. However, Toxic can be used in lieu of Yawn if one wants to rack up even more damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread and Bold nature serve to balance out Shellos's defenses, allowing it to hit a stat of 21 in both defenses. 4 Speed EVs allow Shellos to hit 10 Speed and get the jump on many important threats in Little Cup, while the remaining EVs are put into HP to increase Shellos's overall bulk. In the last slot, Hidden Power Fire or Earth Power can be used over the given options to take down threats such as Pawniard and Ferroseed, who are otherwise solid counters to Shellos. Pokemon that set up entry hazards are good teammates for Shellos to help wear down the enemy faster. Ferroseed is a good example, as not only does it put down Spikes and Leech Seed, it also resists Shellos's weaknesses, making it an even better teammate. Toxic Spikes are especially appreciated to help wear down the opponent even after they've come in. Pokemon that can come in on moves Shellos is weak to are good teammates, especially Chinchou and Houndour, as they take advantage of a free turn and put pressure on the opponent.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Shellos has a few extra choices to choose from. While Storm Drain is the preferred ability on Shellos due to the immunity to Water-type moves and the possible Special Attack boost it brings, Sticky Hold can be used if you don't want your Eviolite taken away due to Trick. Sticky Hold also prevents users of Knock Off from taking your Eviolite, which can be handy in certain situations. Although viable, it is still more situational than Storm Drain. Pain Split is an alternative recovery option that bypasses Taunt, though Recover is usually far more reliable in that it always restores half of Shellos's health. Shellos has the capability to run an offensive set carrying Life Orb and using Earth Power, Surf, Ice Beam, and Hidden Power Fire, coming in on a predicted Water-type attack and doling out boosted attacks with great coverage. In terms of defensive options, Stockpile and Curse can be used in their own sets, though they are both outclassed by other Pokemon. Shellos can also use a Choice Scarf set to great success, possibly gaining a boost from Storm Drain on a switch in and sitting at 21 Speed while carrying a Choice Scarf, making it a great cleaner.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ferroseed and Frillish serve as the top counters to Shellos, as they take a laughable amount of damage from all of Shellos's attacks barring a super effective Hidden Power, and even then it won't OHKO most of the time. However, Yawn has the potential to incapacitate them if they decide to stay in on Shellos. Offensive threats such as Chinchou and Croagunk can come in on Shellos without fear of Scald. However, they too can't stay in if they are hit by Yawn. Pawniard is an excellent counter to Shellos, as it can take on almost anything Shellos can throw at it with ease and set up Swords Dance in its face. Status absorbers, such as RestTalk Munchlax and Lickitung, can take on Shellos easily as well. Lastly, Snover beats any Shellos not carrying Hidden Fire while fully investing in Speed at the same time.</p>