[Overview]

<p>Bug-types are generally thought to be at a competitive disadvantage courtesy of a weakness to Stealth Rock and the poor stats Game Freak typically endows them with; however, Shelmet breaks the norm, wielding potent defensive stats along with a handy resistance to Fighting-types, which plague Little Cup. Shelmet also has the movepool to back this up with moves such as Spikes, Recover, and, perhaps most importantly, Acid Armor to keep up with boosting sweepers. Unfortunately, these resistances to common Fighting-, Grass-, and Ground-types do not come without a cost: notably, the aforementioned weaknesses to Stealth Rock and two powerful offensive types, Fire and Flying. Nonetheless, Shelmet stands out in the metagame as one of the few defensive Pokemon that can handle Scraggy and other Fighting-types.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Recover
move 3: Acid Armor
move 4: Bug Buzz / Hidden Power Flying
item: Eviolite
ability: Shell Armor
nature: Bold
evs: 116 HP / 156 Def / 236 SpD

[Set Comments]

<p>Shelmet fills big shoes on defensive and offensive teams alike, acting as a defensive pivot capable of both setting up entry hazards and taking on Scraggy. A handful of resistances, albeit a small handful, allows Shelmet to come in on multiple opponents, such as Timburr, Mienfoo lacking Stone Edge, Cottonee, and even Bronzor, and set up Spikes. Meanwhile, it can Recover off the damage from any weaker hits. While most defensive Pokemon such as Slowpoke or Bronzor are setup bait for Scraggy, this particular set's use of Acid Armor rocks the lizard's world if it is not carrying Taunt or Head Smash. Bug Buzz is important for wearing down opposing teams thanks to its high PP count and the rare yet useful Special Defense drop. Alternatively, offensive teams may find the slot more suited to Hidden Power Flying, which scores a super effective hit on many notable threats (including Scraggy and Mienfoo).</p>

[Additional Comments]

<p>A Calm nature could be used if one has a hard time switching in Shelmet, but Shelmet's generally bulky enough to avoid said problem (and it won't be taking on the all-too-common Gastly anytime soon, anyway). Shell Armor is the quintessential ability for this set, as it prevents a critical hit from ruining Acid Armor, meaning Scraggy cannot even rely on luck to beat Shelmet. The EVs provide an odd HP value, which is useful considering Shelmet's weakness to Stealth Rock. Although this set is typically considered to be a good answer to Fighting-types, it is also a great answer to Eviolite Water-types, such as Staryu and Chinchou.</p>

<p>Most Pokemon that handle Scraggy are wrecked by Drilbur, and Shelmet is no exception. Bronzor is thus an important teammate as it can switch in to anything Drilbur has and proceed to wear it down or even take it out. Unfortunately, the synergy between Bronzor and Shelmet is middling at best, and one will need something that can absorb Fire-type attacks aimed at the duo. Tentacool makes a good choice, as it can set up Toxic Spikes and has obnoxiously high Special Defense. Alternatively, Munchlax or even the rare Makuhita could see use because of Thick Fat; it is also worth mentioning that both can use Whirlwind to increase damage from Shelmet's Spikes. Slowpoke is another good choice for a teammate, as it resists many of the attacks Shelmet dislikes and it needs a partner that can handle Scraggy. Finally, Exeggcute and Gastly are Pokemon notorious for causing switches, racking up residual damage in conjunction with Spikes.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Shelmet is perhaps the only good choice in terms of Pokemon with access to both Acid Armor and Baton Pass, so it is a necessity for Baton Pass chains. If Toxic Spikes aren't provided on your team somewhere, Shelmet can use Toxic; however, it can really only find use over Bug Buzz, which then leads to problems with handling Shed Skin Scraggy. Yawn causes switches and is useful in conjunction with Spikes, but again Shelmet struggles to find a spot for it on the moveset. Speaking of struggling, Struggle Bug is an interesting move as it works well with Shelmet's naturally high Defense. Lastly, Encore can cause headaches to the opponent; unfortunately, it is illegal with Spikes.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Nearly all Drilbur pack Rock Slide and Swords Dance, so even Acid Armor cannot save Shelmet in such a scenario (especially once Rock Slide's flinch rate is considered). Strong Fire-types, such as Ponyta and Larvesta, force it out while the latter can maintain momentum with U-turn, and the former lacks many decent switch-ins. Stealth Rock and Toxic wear it down quickly, and if the opponent keeps up the offensive pressure, Shelmet will struggle to find a time to Recover. Ironically enough, Scraggy can actually keep up with Shelmet if it decides to pack Head Smash or Taunt. Taunt is the superior choice for Scraggy, as it allows it to shut down more defensive Pokemon.</p>