[Overview]

<p>Shroomish might just seem like another Grass-type, but it has many unique traits and abilities, allowing it to fulfill its own niche apart from that of the other Grass-types of the tier. In a metagame where almost every team needs a good answer to sand teams, Shroomish shines with its pure Grass typing, which allows it to wall most common sand sweepers. This gives it an advantage over its brethren Foongus and Lileep, which carry a secondary typing that makes both only neutral to Ground-type attacks. Shroomish's typing also helps it tank Water- and Electric-type attacks, letting it handle Pokemon like Chinchou or Tirtouga with relative ease. Spore also makes Shroomish stand out, allowing it to shut down any opposing Pokemon and buy itself or its teammates time to set up. Poison Heal is another great asset, as it grants Shroomish an immunity to Toxic as well as a quick way of recovery should it get poisoned. Shroomish has great balanced defenses and a moderate Special Attack stat, perfect for the role of a bulky tank for balanced teams. It has a plethora of great support moves such as Leech Seed, Toxic, or Stun Spore too. However, it still suffers from quite a few old counters. Pokemon with Taunt or Magic Bounce can thwart Shroomish's attempts of support and brush off its relatively weak attacks. Pokemon with Substitute and nice defenses can also wall Shroomish, as the Substitute prevents Shroomish's support moves from working. Despite all this, Shroomish still remains a top-tier sand counter in LC because of its great typing, defensive stats, and access to very rare and useful support moves, and all teams that want a sand counter should definitely consider Shroomish.</p>

[SET]
name: Eviolite
move 1: Spore
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Synthesis
move 4: Toxic / Stun Spore 
item: Eviolite
nature: Bold
evs: 196 HP / 196 Def / 36 SpA / 36 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Shroomish's best set in LC lets it hold the spot as one of the best sand counters in the metagame. Its awesome resistances and balanced defenses when combined with an Eviolite let it sponge hits from common threats such as Drilbur, Tirtouga, Chinchou, and Hippopotas. With an Eviolite, it can shrug off two hits from +2 Adamant Drilbur's X-Scissor and KO back with Giga Drain, recovering off the lost HP in the process. It can also live a +2 Stone Edge from Shell Smash Tirtouga and OHKO back with Giga Drain or shut it down with Spore. Similarly, it can come in on Chinchou and Staryu and simply just sit and suck out their HP with Giga Drain as they fail to scratch Shroomish's bulky hide. Shroomish is a great tank because nearly anything that can't OHKO it can be shut down by Shroomish's Spore and then gradually KOed by Giga Drain. Using its decent Special Attack, Shroomish can quickly eliminate most of the opponents it commonly walls, as they are usually weak to Grass. Shroomish also has access to a  recovery move in Synthesis, which heals it and lets it switch in repeatedly to sponge attacks. With Toxic or Stun Spore, Shroomish can be used to cripple defensive Pokemon or offensive Pokemon respectively, depending on which you want Shroomish to handle. Toxic quickly wears down opponents that lack recovery, especially when used in conjunction with residual damage, while Stun Spore can be used to further cripple opponents after Sleep Cause has been activated.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Shroomish has quite a few other options it can use. Leech Seed is another great support move that can be used to stall the opponent as well as heal up Shroomish's HP. Hidden Power Fire is a nice way to beat opposing Grass- and Steel-types that give Shroomish trouble. If Shroomish does use Hidden Power Fire, it should have 40 EVs in Special Attack instead, as they are needed to bump Shroomish's Special Attack back up to 11. Both of Shroomish's abilities can be used to great effect. Poison Heal can be run to give Shroomish an immunity to Toxic as well as a way to heal itself gradually should it switch in on an opponent's Toxic. However, Poison Heal relies on support from the opponent, making it a situational yet still useful ability. Effect Spore can be used to potentially cripple physical attackers that Shroomish commonly walls, and can even put another opponent to sleep. The given EVs maximize Shroomish's HP and Defense, letting it wall sand teams and other physically attacking pokemon with ease. The EVs are then split to balance power and Special Defense, letting Shroomish dent things with its Giga Drain as well as tank the rare Ice Beam or two from bulky Water-types.</p>

<p>In terms of teammates, Shroomish likes Pokemon that can get rid of opposing Grass-, Ice-, and Flying-types, which can all wall or KO it. Pokemon like Tirtouga or Chinchou that can beat Flying- and Fire-types pair well with Shroomish. Shroomish can help by tanking Grass- and Electric-type moves in return. Ponyta and Houndour are great partners too as they appreciate the removal of Ground- and Water-types and can eliminate Fire-, Grass- and Ice-types for Shroomish. Ponyta even sets up Sunny Day, which boosts Synthesis recovery. Natu can reflect status and Taunt, as well as defeat Grass-types with Hidden Power Flying.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Shroomish can also run an effective SubSeed set with Poison Heal, but it loses the Eviolite set's ability to tank hits and reply back with quick damage. It is also outclassed by Foongus and Cottonee, the former of which has a great resistance to Fighting-type attacks and the latter has priority and a better support movepool. Other than that, there is not very much else Shroomish can do. Focus Punch with Seed Bomb can be used, but Shroomish has a low Attack, so it's better off using support moves. A Choice Scarf can also be used to grab fast Spores, but again it is easily set up on afterwards, making it a very risky option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Virtually anything with Taunt can defeat Shroomish, as it relies heavily on its support moves in order to deal any real damage to opponents. Good examples are Misdreavus, which can hit Shroomish's weaker Special Defense, as well as Vullaby, which can KO with Brave Bird. Grass-types are also annoying as they resist Shroomish's STAB and are immune to Leech Seed. Cottonee, which also learns Taunt and can set up, or Foongus, which can KO with Sludge Bomb or Hidden Power Fire, are good examples. Ferroseed can also set up hazards, but it has to watch for Hidden Power Fire. Snover can come in and OHKO with Blizzard, but it too must watch out for Hidden Power Fire. Flying-types can also be trouble because many of them can hit Shroomish for a lot of damage with their STAB moves. Insomnia Murkrow is immune to Spore and can OHKO with Brave Bird, and Natu can reflect Shroomish's attacks and kill with Hidden Power Flying. Fire-types can also quickly become problems for Shroomish once Spore has been used. Houndour, Larvesta, and Ponyta resist all of Shroomish's attacks and can KO with the appropriate STAB super effective attack. Larvesta can also hit hard with U-turn as well as scout for switch-ins. Pokemon with Substitute can also counter Shroomish, as Substitute blocks Shroomish's status and Leech Seed. Gastly is a good Pokemon to do this because it also resists Giga Drain. Pokemon with Shed Skin can also defeat Shroomish; Dratini resists Shroomish's attacks and can set up. Scraggy can use its great bulk to set up as well. Finally, Pokemon with Sap Sipper are also extremely annoying, as they are immune to Leech Seed, Spore, and Giga Drain and can get a free Attack boost and then KO. Deerling is a great example, but it must watch out for Hidden Power Fire or Toxic.</p>