[Overview] 

<p>Shuppet is a very mediocre Pokemon; it's outclassed by almost every other Ghost-type in the tier, though it's usable if you're looking for something different. Shuppet has usable attacking stats, most notably its base 75 Attack, which is higher than most other Ghost-types in Little Cup. On the defensive side, Shuppet is very frail, and being a Ghost-type, it's weak to common priority moves, such as Sucker Punch and Shadow Sneak. Luckily, Shuppet is immune to Normal- and Fighting-type moves, which allows for an easier switch in. Its movepool is very shallow, though access to Trick Room, Taunt, and Destiny Bond are more than enough to warrant a set. If you're looking for a great Ghost-type in Little Cup however, stick to a more reliable Pokemon, such as Gastly and Duskull.</p> 

[SET] 
name: Trick Room Lead
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Destiny Bond
move 3: Taunt 
move 3: Shadow Sneak / Sucker Punch
item: Focus Sash
ability: Frisk
nature: Brave
evs: 236 Atk
ivs: 0 HP / 0 Def / 0 SpD / 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS] 

<p>This is Shuppet's best attempt at a set. Shuppet's poor Speed means it can take advantage of Trick Room while supporting its teammates in the process. Destiny Bond can be used following Trick Room and has the potential to ensure at least one KO before Shuppet goes down. Taunt is listed as it blocks any opponent's attempt to set up on Shuppet and forces the opponent to attack, which in turn, guarantees a KO with Destiny Bond. In the final slot, Shadow Sneak is used for STAB, but Sucker Punch has a higher Base Power. The main benefit to using Shadow Sneak over Sucker Punch is that it still hits even if the opponent doesn't attack Shuppet. It should be noted, however, that, if Shadow Sneak is used, Shuppet is completely walled by Normal-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>This set only needs to invest in Attack because Shuppet is designed to be as frail as possible. If you decide you don't want to use Shuppet as a lead, you can invest in HP and use Eviolite instead of Focus Sash for survivability. If you're looking for a defensive Trick Room user though, Yamask is generally a better choice. Will-O-Wisp can be used over Taunt if you wish to cripple physical attackers, though this carries the risk of allowing Pokemon such as Dwebble to setup on Shuppet.</p> 

<p>Pokemon that can take advantage of Trick Room are ideal partners, especially those with high offensive stats. Trapinch is an excellent example, as it has base 100 Attack, powerful STAB moves, and Arena Trap, which means the opponent is forced to take a hit. Omanyte and Solosis are specially based sweepers, and both of them have decent defensive stats and good type coverage. Other examples of good partners include Cranidos, Darumaka, and Magnemite.</p>

<p>Due to Shuppet's frailty, most priority moves will KO it prematurely. Sucker Punch, Ice Shard, and Aqua Jet are the most troublesome, as they are common on powerful attackers such as Croagunk, Snorunt, and Buizel. A Steel-type such as Bronzor makes an excellent teammate, as it can switch into most common priority moves with ease and use this time to set up entry hazards, stat boosts, or even dual screens. Magnemite is a more offensive option if you require more attacking power, but the added support is always beneficial. Finally, Dark- and Fighting-types can get rid of opposing Ghost- and Dark-types. Scraggy can destroy most Ghost- and Dark-types with STAB-boosted Crunch and Drain Punch, and Sandile can act as a revenge killer with a Choice Scarf.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Shuppet's stats are nothing spectacular, so many options aren't viable because it'd either be too frail, too slow, or lack the correct coverage. Trick can be used with a Choice Scarf to cripple an opponent, but Shuppet is generally too slow and frail, not to mention Trick is easy to predict most of the time. Shuppet can use a Calm Mind set with Thunderbolt, Shadow Ball, and Hidden Power Fighting, but unfortunately, Shuppet is slow and gets revenge killed easily. Knock Off is probably Shuppet's most viable remaining option, as it can remove Choice items and Eviolite, rendering a variety of Pokemon useless. Pursuit can hit fleeing Ghost- and Psychic-types that switch out of Sucker Punch or Shadow Sneak, but its low Base Power and lack of STAB means it won't deal a lot of damage otherwise. Rain Dance can be used alongside Thunder and Hidden Power Water, but Shuppet's Special Attack is nothing to write home about, and there are many Pokemon in the tier that do a much better job with Rain Dance. Substitute can be used to avoid status and provide some extra protection from attacks, but it should only be used on a switch because Shuppet is frail, and has low Speed. Finally, Payback can be used to hit other Ghost-types, and because Shuppet will usually be moving last, its Base Power will generally be doubled.</p>

<p>Shuppet gets Cursed Body as its Dream World ability. This can be useful to beat Choice users locked onto a weak attack, and it can also be used to beat Pokemon that lack coverage. Frisk is usually the better ability, as knowing the opponent's item can prove beneficial to defeating it.</p> 

[Checks and Counters] 

<p>Generally, Dark-types can break through Shuppet with no problems at all. Houndour, Scrafty, and Stunky take little damage from all of Shuppet's attacks and have powerful STAB moves to quickly dispose of it. Normal-types such as Munchlax are good choices as well. Munchlax is immune to Ghost-type moves and has access to a powerful Pursuit to KO Shuppet on the switch. Shuppet can't touch Steel-types outside of Will-O-Wisp, so Pokemon such as Magnemite and Bronzor are good checks. In addition, Magnemite doesn't mind being burned that much, as it is normally specially based, and Bronzor can still set up Stealth Rock or dual screens even if statused. Finally, Pokemon that carry Sucker Punch, Shadow Sneak, Aqua Jet, or Ice Shard can break through Shuppet's poor defenses and remove it from play in an instant.</p>