[Overview]

<p>Even though its stats may not appear initially overwhelming, Snover possesses a useful niche in the Little Cup metagame due to being one of two legal, automatic-weather inducers. Although sandstorm provided by Hippopotas is a more prevalent playing style, hail is beneficial to Snover. Primarily, Blizzard becomes 100% accurate, and in conjunction with a usable base 62 Special Attack, puts pressure on the opponent if they lack an answer to Snover; unfortunately, there are a lot of those floating around, as Fighting-types dominate the metagame. Snow Warning is also useful for eliminating sandstorm, which makes Pokemon such as Drilbur and Lileep more manageable. To back all this up, Snover also has a particularly useful movepool, including defensive moves as Leech Seed and Substitute, and STAB priority in Ice Shard.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Blizzard
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Ice Shard
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Rock
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Snow Warning
nature: Naive
evs: 104 Atk / 184 SpA / 200 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>By wearing a Choice Scarf, Snover guarantees that it will outspeed Drilbur, provided hail is up instead of sandstorm. If your team has a method of dealing with Fighting-types, "Blizzspam" suddenly becomes a scary offensive strategy, decimating a large portion of the tier. Giga Drain keeps Snover healthy after repeated switches in, and also does passable damage due to STAB. Ice Shard is an important move on this set, even with Choice Scarf, as it allows Snover to pick off faster Choice Scarf users such as Taillow. Hidden Power Fire is the primary option for the last slot, as it catches Ferroseed or Bronzor that try to switch in off guard. Hidden Power Rock is another option that hits the less-prevalent Fire-types, including Larvesta and Houndour.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As stated, Choice Scarf with maximum Speed is important to outspeed Drilbur after Snow Warning (Snover should still be careful of coming in on a Rock Slide, however). Snover also gets the jump on Gastly, Staryu, Doduo, Ponyta, and Taillow that are not equipped with a Choice Scarf of their own. 36 Attack EVs can be shifted to HP, Defense, and Special Defense each if you desire to use Leech Seed as a bluff instead of Ice Shard, or if Ice Shard is unnecessary for the team. Water Pulse and Shadow Ball are also interesting coverage moves Snover has access to, but don't provide any particularly helpful coverage (Hidden Power Rock is better since it is 4x effective on Larvesta, and Gastly already won't like taking Blizzards).</p>

<p>Wynaut and Flying-types with a Choice Scarf are great teammates for Snover, as it is forced out by Mienfoo, Croagunk, and Timburr, which Snover can not OHKO with Blizzard. It is also recommended to use a defensive answer to Fighting-types, which can include Frillish, defensive Misdreavus, Eviolite Larvesta (which has good synergy with Snover, but suffers from Morning Sun being less effective in hail), or even Duskull. Ponyta absorbs Fire-type moves directed at Snover and takes out Bronzor, which walls variants without Hidden Power Fire. Magnemite with Magnet Rise also has no problem taking out Bronzor. Ironically, a Mienfoo of your own can help alleviate the threat of opposing Fighting-types, getting free damage with Fake Out, hitting hard and fast with Hi Jump Kick, and paving a free way in for Snover with U-turn.</p>

[SET]
name: Eviolite
move 1: Blizzard
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Rock
move 4: Ice Shard
item: Eviolite
ability: Snow Warning
nature: Quiet
evs: 36 HP / 104 Atk / 36 Def / 184 SpA / 116 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Eviolite, Snover has an easy time checking the Water-types in LC and is also able to repeatedly switch in on Hippopotas. This allows Snover to continually remove the sandstorm that makes sand teams so threatening. Snover can also bluff a Choice Scarf with this set, allowing it to get a surprise hit against the opponent that usually results in a free KO, such as when Chinchou comes in on a Blizzard only to get crippled by Giga Drain next turn, or when Ferroseed switches in on a Giga Drain but then eats a Hidden Power Fire. It's important to note that, without a Choice Scarf, Snover won't outspeed Drilbur in hail, making it less effective as a Drilbur check than the Choice Scarf set. However, it's much better at switching in on Hippopotas, which makes it a better check to sand teams as a whole.</p>

<p>Blizzard and Giga Drain are Snover's STAB moves. Blizzard hits incredibly hard, while Giga Drain can be used to nail the Water-types that resist Blizzard and keep Snover healthy throughout the match. Most of the time, Snover should just spam Blizzard, unless you predict a Steel- or Fire-type coming in. Hidden Power Fire hits the Steel-types that will switch in, such as Magnemite, Ferroseed, Pawniard, and Bronzor. On the other hand, Hidden Power Rock hits the Fire-types switch-ins, such as Larvesta, Houndour, and Ponyta. The choice of Hidden Power should be dependent on how well the rest of the team covers each of these two groups. Ice Shard is useful priority that can pick off weakened Pokemon, most notably Drilbur and Murkrow. It won't actually OHKO anything, but it will do over 50% to both Life Orb Drilbur and Life Orb Murkrow, which might be helpful in a pinch.</p>

<p>The EV spread gives Snover enough bulk to switch in on resisted attacks while also providing offensive power. The HP EVs give Snover 23 HP, letting it switch in 5 times if Stealth Rock is up, as Snover will only be damaged 5 HP per switch in. The given bulk also makes it so Chinchou and Staryu will only 4HKO at best with Hydro Pump. Snover also avoids a OHKO from +2 Eviolite Misdreavus's Hidden Power Fighting, and will not be 2HKOed in general by Misdreavus. Unfortunately, you can't have everything, as Snover has to sit at 9 Speed to enjoy the perks of bulk and power. Even this has a silver lining though, as it will usually let Snover underspeed Hippopotas, meaning if both Snover and Hippopotas are sent out at the same time, Snover will remove the sandstorm and set up hail.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If you're having trouble choosing between Hidden Power Fire and Hidden Power Rock, Hidden Power Ground can be used to hit a mix of the Pokemon you'd hit with the other two. It will nail Magnemite, Pawniard, Houndour, Ponyta, and even Tentacool, although Snover won't be able to hit Bronzor, Ferroseed, or Larvesta hard. Protect can also be used instead of Ice Shard or Hidden Power to block Fake Out, scout moves, and piss off Hi Jump Kick users. Leech Seed and Synthesis are options to give Snover more longevity; however, Giga Drain will usually end up healing more than either of those moves. If the listed EV spread isn't your thing, you can run an alternative spread of 36 HP / 104 Atk / 36 Def / 184 SpA / 120 Spe with a Quiet nature. This will allow Snover to outspeed many important walls, such as Hippopotas, Lileep, and Ferroseed, and tie with some others, such as Porygon and Frillish.</p>

<p>For teammates, a spinner is important to help Snover check sand reliably. Staryu pairs well with Snover type-wise, as it is able to wall the Fire-types that can melt Snover. In turn, Eviolite Snover makes a great switch-in to many Pokemon that threaten Staryu, such as Chinchou and Ferroseed. Other spinners, such as Drilbur and Tentacool, can also be effective partners. It's also incredibly important to pair Snover with at least one Pokemon that can check the common Fighting-types in Little Cup. Both Misdreavus and Murkrow work well with Snover on offensive teams, while Vullaby and Shelmet work well on defensive teams. Larvesta is also an option, as with its Flame Body ability it can cripple most of the common Fighting-types, notably Mienfoo. However, Larvesta relies on Morning Sun for recovery, and as such doesn't perform as well in hail. Other Snover teammates should be able to counter Murkrow, a top-tier threat that can OHKO Snover. Chinchou can easily tank Murkrow's attacks and support Snover with Heal Bell and Scald, while Archen can also wall Murkrow and provide Stealth Rock and U-turn support. Both Chinchou and Archen also have great synergy with Snover as a whole.</p>

<p>As Snover cannot outspeed Drilbur without a Choice Scarf, it is necessary to include Pokemon that can outspeed Drilbur once Snover has removed the sandstorm. The aforementioned Staryu, Misdreavus, and Murkrow all hit 19 Speed, making them capable of outspeeding and threatening Drilbur while sand is not up. Other Pokemon that can outspeed Drilbur include Abra and Ponyta. Alternatively, Snover can be paired with a Choice Scarf Pokemon that can hit Drilbur hard, such as Choice Scarf Mienfoo or Magnemite.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>An offensive Swords Dance set can be used, as Snover is one of the few Pokemon in Little Cup with STAB priority and Swords Dance. Protect could be used as more of an annoyance on any set with Leech Seed and Substitute; however, Snover needs both the offensive power of Blizzard and the coverage of Giga Drain. Speaking of which, Energy Ball can be used over Giga Drain on any set, but generally the HP restoration is more useful than a slight boost in power.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Tentacool walls nearly every set Snover can run since its ability, Liquid Ooze, actually reverses the effect of Giga Drain and Leech Seed. When Snover does not have Hidden Power Fire, Steel-types such as Ferroseed, Bronzor, or even Pawniard will have no difficulty switching in and forcing Snover out. Stealth Rock does enough damage to Snover to discourage repeated switches in, and also makes it much easier to OHKO. Fighting-types typically take little from Blizzard and OHKO back with their STAB attacks. Notably, Mienfoo, a dominant force in the tier, can U-turn or Hi Jump Kick for stellar damage and then recover any damage it may have taken switching in courtesy of Regenerator. Lastly, Hippopotas is slower than nearly all variants of Snover, so it will always get sandstorm up if both it and Snover are sent out as a lead.</p>