[Overview]

<p>Teddiursa is the cutest Pokemon of all time, and, unlike most cute Pokemon, it is actually decent. Teddiursa is a respectable sweeper in today's metagame; with 21 Speed after a Quick Feet boost, it becomes faster than all other unboosted Pokemon, and can easily run through teams after a Swords Dance. Although Teddiursa is not incredibly bulky thanks to the lack of Eviolite, as it must use Toxic Orb to abuse Quick Feet, it can still set up on a variety of special attackers and proceed to sweep teams with its STAB-boosted Facade. However, it is just not strong enough without Swords Dance, and will fail to sweep teams if it doesn't get its boost.</p>

[SET]
name: Quick Feet
move 1: Swords Dance / Protect
move 2: Facade
move 3: Close Combat
move 4: Crunch
item: Toxic Orb
ability: Quick Feet
nature: Jolly
evs: 196 Atk / 116 SpD / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Quick Feet, high Attack, and access to Swords Dance, Teddiursa is a formidable sweeper. When poisoned, Teddiursa reaches an amazing 21 Speed, which is faster than every non-boosted Pokemon in the tier; that Speed, combined with an outstanding 18 Attack, strikes fear into many Pokemon. Protect is an alternative for Teddiursa, to ensure Toxic Orb activates, while also defending itself from random Fake Outs; however, it is generally outclassed by Swords Dance, which allows Teddiursa to sweep unprepared teams. Facade is the perfect STAB attack for Teddiursa—it has 210 Base Power after STAB—allowing it to completely destroy everything that doesn't resist it. Close Combat and Crunch both give great coverage, collectively hitting Rock-, Steel-, and Ghost-types for super effective damage. Teddiursa is also a great status absorber after Toxic Orb has been activated, and can easily capitalize on the many Pokemon who use status moves, such as Ferroseed and Shroomish. Thanks to its frailty, however, it might have some difficulty setting up, but Teddiursa can set up on a variety of special attackers such as Eviolite Misdreavus, Staryu, Porygon, and Lileep.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs and nature are used to give Teddiursa 14 Speed, as much Attack as possible, and maximum special bulk; physical bulk is not invested in, as physical attacks are often too powerful for Teddiursa to take. Entry hazard support is generally not needed on any Teddiursa running Swords Dance, but if it runs Protect, the extra damage from Stealth Rock and Spikes are imperative for Teddiursa's success. Good teammates to Teddiursa include Pokemon who can take priority attacks or hits from Choice Scarf users; Pokemon such as Porygon, Bronzor, Ferroseed, Shelmet, Chinchou, Lileep, and Misdreavus are all marvelous at taking hits and supporting Teddiursa in some way. Both Wynaut and Misdreavus are both incredibly useful, as they can take hits from Fighting-type Pokemon such as Mienfoo and Timburr, both of whom are large threats to Teddiursa.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Teddiursa has coverage moves, such as Aerial Ace, Earthquake, and Rock Slide, however; all of them are weaker than STAB neutral Facade, even when they are super effective. Fire Punch is a viable move solely to hit Bronzor, but Close Combat at +2 easily 2HKOes Bronzor anyways. Bulk Up and Hone Claws are both boosting moves that can be used over Swords Dance, but Teddiursa does not have the bulk to use Bulk Up, and the accuracy boost from Hone Claws is negligible when you realize that every one of Teddiursa's attacks have perfect accuracy. Substitute can be used over Swords Dance or Protect, but many switch-ins to Teddiursa are faster than Teddiursa, making it more logical to just attack outright. Yawn can be used over one of the coverage moves in conjunction with Protect, but this would cause Teddiursa to lose valuable coverage for an unreliable sleep strategy. Body Slam or Return can technically be used over Facade, but they are almost always weaker. As Teddiursa outspeeds all unboosted Pokemon in the tier, it can run Rain Dance or Sunny Day to support the team, but there are generally better users of the moves, such as Chinchou and Mienfoo. Lastly, a Rest + Sleep Talk set with Eviolite can be used, but Teddiursa's Normal typing is horrible for a defensive set in a metagame infested with Fighting-types.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>There are only a few ways of dealing with Teddiursa. Bronzor and Slowpoke can both take a hit from Teddiursa even when it is at +2 Attack, but neither can do much back, as they cannot even status it. Stalling with Protect is incredibly effective against Teddiursa, as the increasing Toxic damage will eventually put a stop to its sweep. Outside of these methods, one must rely on either priority or outspeeding it in some way. Priority from Pokemon such as Mienfoo, Tirtouga, Murkrow, Timburr, Stunky, Snover, Dratini, and Croagunk is extremely threatening to Teddiursa; Fake Out from Croagunk or Mienfoo are especially so, thanks to Fake Out's effect of flinching, adding on to the already short timer Teddiursa has. Outspeeding Teddiursa is also a great way of dealing with it; Drilbur under sandstorm can easily outspeed and OHKO Teddiursa with its STAB Earthquake, while Choice Scarf users such as Murkrow, Mienfoo, Taillow, and Chinchou will always reliably outspeed and damage Teddiursa. Choice Scarf users who reach 21 Speed, such as Snover and Shellder, can also threaten Teddiursa, but risk losing the Speed tie and getting OHKOed.</p>