[Overview]

<p>Tympole doesn't seem like much at first glance: it doesn't have a large movepool, and its base stats are all pretty poor. However, it becomes a dangerous offensive threat in the rain, reaching over 30 Speed—one of the few Pokemon in Little Cup to hit over 30 Speed in the rain even with a neutral nature, setting it apart from other similar sweepers. Despite the fact that it doesn't have typical moves for a Water-type (such as Ice Beam), it gets others that easily make up for them. Overall, Tympole isn't to be underestimated, as it can make unprepared teams pay heavily.</p>

[SET]
name: Swift Swim Sweeper
move 1: Hydro Pump / Surf
move 2: Sludge Wave
move 3: Earth Power
move 4: Hidden Power Electric / Rain Dance
item: Life Orb
ability: Swift Swim
nature: Modest
evs: 36 Def / 200 SpA / 244 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes advantage of Tympole's decent coverage, giving it the best chance of pulling off a sweep. Hydro Pump is its strongest STAB attack and has an incredible amount of power in the rain, enabling Tympole to hit a wide range of threats very heavily. However, Surf is an alternative if accuracy is an issue. Sludge Wave smacks the Grass-types who resist Hydro Pump, and easily OHKOes Snover—something not every Swift Swim sweeper can boast—as it switches in to end the rain. Earth Power gives Tympole more coverage, allowing it to easily KO both Croagunk and Chinchou, two threats to rain teams. There are two options for the last moveslot. Hidden Power Electric is Tympole's most powerful option against other Water-types, destroying Mantyke for instance, who can take its other attacks with ease. On the other hand, Rain Dance allows Tympole to sweep on its own instead of relying upon team support, and also helps it maintain its Speed boost even as weather changers, such as Snover, switch in.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Since Tympole already reaches more than 30 Speed in the rain, a Timid nature won't be of much use. As such, due to Tympole's weak offensive stats, a Modest nature and a Life Orb are used to maximize the power of Tympole's attacks. Tympole needs Rain Dance support from its teammates to sweep most of the time, as it will otherwise have trouble outspeeding faster threats. Bronzor makes a great choice, as its bulk allows it to set up both Rain Dance and Stealth Rock with ease. Voltorb, although frail, can set up Rain Dance reliably with its high Speed, and allow Tympole to switch in safely with Explosion. Other Rain Dance sweepers, such as Kabuto and Omanyte, can weaken the opponent's team and clear the way for Tympole to sweep, but both share its weaknesses.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Tympole has few other options it can use, as its movepool is small. Hyper Voice can be used for its high Base Power, but it lacks the coverage offered by Tympole's other moves. Tympole can also utilize Hydration by running a support set in the rain with options such as Toxic, Rest, and Aqua Ring, with either Leftovers or Eviolite as the item, but rain is not permanent in Little Cup. Muddy Water can be used to lower the opponent's accuracy and has the same Base Power as Surf, but its accuracy is imperfect, making it a poor option. Tympole also gets Confuse Ray, but confusion is a very unreliable status condition. Tympole also has a decent base 50 Attack stat, but it has no physical options to work with.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Munchlax takes all of Tympole's attacks with ease thanks to its huge Special Defense, and can severely weaken it with Return. Ferroseed doesn't take much from Earth Power and laughs at Tympole's other moves, and can set up entry hazards or KO Tympole with Bullet Seed or Seed Bomb. Choice Scarf Snover takes away the rain that Tympole relies on and can KO it with Giga Drain, but Snover must be wary of Sludge Wave as it switches in. Chinchou can revenge kill Tympole with Thunderbolt, but can't switch in directly, as it will be KOed by Earth Power. Due to its weak defensive stats, Tympole will also take a large amount of damage from priority attacks, meaning that users of those attacks, such as Croagunk, can finish off Tympole with ease.</p>