[Overview]

<p>Wailmer is one of the only Pokemon in Little Cup that can boast access to Water Spout. With good Speed when equipped with a Choice Scarf, a huge HP stat, and wonderful Water-type STAB, Wailmer is definitely a force to reckoned with. Wailmer can run a variety of different sets, thanks to a great movepool and well rounded stats. It has the ability to be a considerably strong offensive threat thanks to Water Spout, while it can also be great defensively thanks to Roar, which, in tandem with entry hazards, can make Wailmer very difficult to break down. However, Wailmer's stats may also be its downfall, as some may argue that they are too well rounded, meaning that it can never excel in other categories. It also faces large competition from other Water-types, such as Mantyke and Chinchou, meaning that it is often outclassed. Nonetheless, if Wailmer is played to its strengths, it can almost certainly be a great addition to any Little Cup team.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Roar
move 4: Scald
item: Eviolite
ability: Pressure
nature: Bold
evs: 36 HP / 236 Def / 236 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Wailmer is often seen as an offensive Water Spout abuser, but with the second highest HP stat in all of Little Cup, it's no surprise that Wailmer makes an excellent defensive tank. Good typing gives Wailmer only two weaknesses, Grass- and Electric-type moves, both of which are rarely seen in Little Cup. On top of this, Black and White has given Wailmer three amazing gifts: Eviolite, Scald, and Pressure. With an HP stat of 30, boosting Wailmer's defenses increases its bulk exponentially, making Eviolite quite possibly the best thing that has happened to Wailmer. Scald is particularly handy as it burns opposing Pokemon, nullifying their Attack stat. It also has a reliable 80 Base Power, and enough PP to win a stall war. Wailmer's ability is another factor that makes it a great defensive staller; Pressure will increase the PP consumed by the opponent when using an attack to two, making some low PP attacks, such as Fire Blast and Hydro Pump, incredibly easy to stall out. Wailmer is able to act as a status absorber as well, using Rest to remove status. Barring Chinchou with Thunderbolt, Wailmer can safely switch into any Pokemon who commonly uses a status, such as Slowpoke and Gastly.</p>

<p>The RestTalk combination, however, was not as lucky as Wailmer. Because the new sleep counter resets upon switching out, Wailmer must stay in if it is to be used effectively; in other words, Wailmer must have good team support. On the bright side, Wailmer's only solid check is Chinchou, who can be completely stopped by a handful of Pokemon.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If you have Toxic Spikes on your team, you might prefer to use Surf instead of Scald due to the former's higher Base Power. Be aware, however, that the many common Little Cup threats that are immune to Toxic Spikes, such as Doduo and Ferroseed, would be utterly debilitated if they were burned. Entry hazards work very well with Wailmer because of the amount of switches it causes and its ability to phaze. Ferroseed has near perfect synergy with Wailmer and can set up Spikes, Stealth Rock, or even Leech Seed. Chinchou with Hidden Power Grass beats opposing Chinchou, and Heal Bell can wake Wailmer up if you switch out while it's asleep. Lileep can beat opposing Chinchou one-on-one, set up Stealth Rock, and take Grass- and Electric-type hits with ease. Mienfoo is a good teammate to check Lileep, Slowpoke, and others who threaten Wailmer.</p>

<p>There really isn't much legroom when working with a moveset like this one. In terms of different options, Wailmer gets Amnesia, Aqua Ring, and Curse as boosting and healing moves. You can use Toxic over Roar if you don't have Toxic Spikes and would rather poison opponents than force them out. Outside of these moves, Wailmer has no successful options. You can run a Calm nature if the rest of your team is physically bulky, but it takes away Wailmer's high chance of surviving two Hi Jump Kicks from Mienfoo.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Water Spout
move 2: Hydro Pump / Surf
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Grass / Hidden Power Electric
item: Choice Scarf
ability: Water Veil
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 36 HP / 76 Def / 200 SpA / 196 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>When equipped with a Choice Scarf, Wailmer finds itself with a much needed boost to its Speed, bringing it up to a stat of 24. This allows Wailmer to fire off powerful Water Spouts while outspeeding the entire unboosted metagame with Choice Scarf, meaning it can hit other Pokemon before Water Spout is weakened. This set is useful in that it can easily rip holes into offensive teams, opening up a sweep for teammates. Hydro Pump is used on this set to provide a more consistently powerful option over Water Spout, as when Wailmer begins to lose HP, Water Spout becomes considerably weaker. Ice Beam is to provide coverage, and it does a number on Dragon- and Grass-types that will frequently switch in on Wailmer in an attempt to wall it. Finally, a Hidden Power of choice can be used to provide the final coverage. Both options hit Water-types that will set up on Wailmer. Hidden Power Grass allows Wailmer to hit Chinchou and Frillish, while Hidden Power Electric strikes Mantyke super effectively, all of which are common Pokemon. One must take into account, however, that Hidden Power sports only 70 Base Power, and this means that with Wailmer's only middling Special Attack stat, it will struggle to do lots of damage, which is why Hidden Power should only be used when absolutely necessary.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>There are a few changes that can be made with this set. Hydro Pump can easily be replaced with Surf for perfect accuracy at the cost of considerable power, although this choice is down to the user. Wailmer's nature can be changed to Modest for some extra strength behind Wailmer's attacks, making it a good choice. Under the circumstances, however, a Modest nature means that Choice Scarf Wailmer will no longer be able to outspeed Scraggy after a Dragon Dance, meaning that it can no longer check one of the strongest threats in the metagame. Water Veil is the ability of choice, as it allows Wailmer to switch into Will-O-Wisp, and it is more effective than Wailmer's other abilities. Finally, another option is Hidden Power Fire to beat Ferroseed and Snover, two of the best checks to Wailmer.</p>

<p>As Wailmer will find itself frequently switching in and out, Rapid Spin support is a great boon to our favorite whale, as it wants to keep its Water Spout at maximum power. Sandshrew is perhaps the best option for providing Rapid Spin support, as it provides an excellent immunity to Electric-type attacks while also setting up Stealth Rock itself, allowing Wailmer to KO more Pokemon after the residual damage. However, Sandshrew does compound Wailmer's weakness to Grass-type attacks, so one must be wary of this when providing additional team support. Another useful teammate is Magnemite, as not only does it resist Grass-type moves, it can easily remove Ferroseed, perhaps the best check to Wailmer.</p>

<p>Finally, rain support is a good thing to have when using Wailmer, as it boosts Water Spout's power to colossal levels, denting even Pokemon that resist the attack when Wailmer is at full health. Bronzor is a good teammate that can easily set up rain, and it can even provide Trick Room support if you choose to run Wailmer without a Choice Scarf for more power.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>As Wailmer has a wide movepool, it can run many other options. Wailmer can easily run a tanking set with Roar, Scald, Toxic, and Rest, but without Sleep Talk, it will have no reliable recovery unless it wants to become dead weight for two turns. Wailmer can also utilize its Dream World ability Pressure to great effect, but being able to switch into a burn is the better choice for the more offensive Pokemon that Wailmer is. Wailmer can also run a pseudo-hazing set with Yawn and Protect, as opposing Pokemon will be forced to switch out unless they want to be put to sleep, though Roar is usually the better option. Finally, Selfdestruct is a rather beneficial option for Wailmer, but the drop in power means that it is relatively useless, and a Ghost-type can easily switch in to take the attack.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As Wailmer will often find itself spamming Water Spout, many Pokemon that resist Water-type attacks can easily counter Wailmer. Ferroseed is perhaps the best counter to our whale, as it can take Water Spouts with ease, while it can set up Spikes or Leech Seed, or even hit back with Bullet Seed. Snover is also an effective check, as it can hit Wailmer with Giga Drain for great damage, while hail causes Wailmer to take extra residual damage, meaning that Water Spout will be weakened further. Lileep with Storm Drain can easily come in on Water Spout, and it will not be 2HKOed by Ice Beam. Frillish is an excellent check as well, as it regains health from switching into Water Spout, and it doesn't mind Hidden Power Grass too much thanks to its excellent Special Defense stat. Wynaut can revenge kill Wailmer, thanks to Shadow Tag and Mirror Coat. Mantyke can beat Wailmer if it is without Hidden Power Electric, while Chinchou can beat Wailmer if it is without Hidden Power Grass. Finally, Wooper can beat a rare Curse set thanks to Unaware, Toxic, and Recover.</p>