[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Woobat is yet another mediocre Psychic-type special attacker. However, Woobat's Dream World ability, Simple, sets it apart from the rest, allowing it to double both its Special Attack and Special Defense after a single Calm Mind. This ability to quickly set up, combined with Woobat's decent Special Attack and good Speed, gives Woobat the potential to ravage opposing teams after a single free turn. Unfortunately, Woobat is incredibly frail even with the help of Eviolite, being 2HKOed by most unresisted physical attacks. Support from its teammates to take on strong physical attackers is needed so Woobat can shine.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Air Slash / Roost
move 4: Heat Wave
item: Eviolite
ability: Simple
nature: Timid
evs: 76 HP / 236 SpA / 12 SpD / 180 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to exploit Woobat's only niche, Simple and Calm Mind, which allows Woobat to double its Special Attack and Special Defense in one turn. Thanks to its good Speed and decent Special Attack, Woobat can take advantage of Calm Mind's Special Defense boost to find opportunities to set up against weaker Pokemon that use special attacks, such as RestTalk Chinchou and Slowpoke. Psychic is a strong, reliable STAB move, hitting the numerous Fighting-types in LC super effectively. Psychic is a superior choice over Stored Power thanks to its reliability; it's still almost as powerful as Stored Power after one Calm Mind and Woobat is more likely to need to attack immediately than to find an opportunity to Calm Mind twice. Air Slash is Woobat's secondary STAB, useful for hitting Scraggy super effectively, hitting Murkrow neutrally, and coming through from time to time with its handy flinch chance. Although Woobat has poor defenses, Roost can help to improve its survivability, especially when setting up against weaker special attackers. Heat Wave improves Woobat's coverage greatly, heavily damaging the Steel-types, such as Ferroseed, Bronzor, Magnemite, and Pawniard, which would otherwise take little damage from Woobat.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Woobat can easily set up against weak special attackers. It also has the ability to set up on as many Fighting-types, such as Croagunk and Mienfoo lacking Stone Edge. However, Woobat loses to most other fast physical attackers; Murkrow destroys Woobat, OHKOing with LO Drill Peck or Sucker Punch while Air Slash only does around 40% to it unboosted. Defensive Porygon is a great teammate for Woobat, as it checks Murkrow and many other physical attackers while spreading paralysis to assist Woobat in sweeping the opposing team. Woobat can also take advantage of Porygon's tendency to lure Fighting-types to get an opportunity to set up. In general, physically bulky Pokemon&mdash;especially Pokemon that can threaten specially defensive behemoths such as Lileep and Munchlax&mdash;are good partners for Woobat. Timburr pairs well with Woobat, resisting the Rock-type attacks it is weak to, heavily damaging Lileep and Munchlax, and taking advantage of Toxic aimed at Woobat with Guts. Psyshock can be run over Psychic to better damage specially bulky Pokemon at the expense of some power. Hidden Power Ground can be run over Heat Wave to do more damage to Magnemite and Aron. Life Orb can be used as the item for more power, but lack of Eviolite will compromise Woobat's bulk, especially its Defense.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Every Woobat set should run Calm Mind and Simple; it is simply the best niche it has in LC. Taunt can be used to prevent Lileep and Bronzor from badly poisoning Woobat with Toxic. An all-out attacking set is possible thanks to Woobat's movepool, but it is outclassed by Abra, which is more powerful, faster, and has Magic Guard. Woobat can also run a Choice Specs set with Psychic, U-turn, Air Slash, and Heat Wave but its frailty and the disadvantages of locking Woobat into Psychic would make that set mediocre. Amnesia allows Woobat to hit +4 Special Defense in a single turn, but it is almost never as useful as Calm Mind.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Woobat's checks mainly consist of physical attackers, which are either faster than Woobat or have access to priority moves. Murkrow possesses both of these qualities, and its high Attack allows it to OHKO even Eviolite Woobat easily. Pawniard can switch in on most of Woobat's attacks and hurt it badly with Sucker Punch, although it must be wary of Heat Wave. Ponyta has good Special Defense and can outspeed Woobat to ravage it with Flare Blitz. Other strong physical attackers, such Drilbur and Elekid, perform similarly well against Woobat. Lileep can switch into all of Woobat's moveset and use Toxic to stall it out; Bronzor can survive a Heat Wave and do the same.</p>