[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Wooper may seem like a sitting duck; assumptions may be that it’s cute, but pathetically weak. Unfortunately for those who think that, Wooper is far from useless. It can serve as a utility Pokemon; its high HP and good Defense, further boosted by Eviolite, help it to check certain dangerous threats such as Scraggy, and other Fighting- and Ground-type Pokemon. Wooper also sports immunities to Electric- and Water-type moves (with Water Absorb), further enhancing its ability to switch in comfortably. Overall, Wooper should not be underestimated, because when given the correct support, it will not be easy to knock out.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Waterfall / Ice Punch / Encore
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Recover
item: Eviolite
ability: Unaware / Water Absorb
nature: Impish
evs: 236 HP / 76 Atk / 156 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Wooper is a great utility counter to many Pokemon, being able to stall large threats out with a combination of its moves and stats. Earthquake offers STAB, and is a relatively powerful attack. Waterfall provides secondary STAB, and is useful against Pokemon who resist Ground-type attacks. Ice Punch offers great coverage alongside Earthquake, hitting  Flying-type Pokemon for super effective damage, but cannot be used with Unaware. Encore allows Wooper to lock an opponent into a move, easing prediction, and often allowing a teammate to set up if the opponent does not switch on the same turn. Toxic is a great move, and can be used to stall opposing Pokemon out in tangent with Recover.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Unaware is the preferred ability, and it is most useful for countering set-up sweepers. However, Water Absorb is also useful, as replenishing a quarter of Wooper's health whenever it switches into a Water-type move is really quite nifty. Note that Ice Punch is illegal with Unaware because Ice Punch is a 4th generation move tutor move, and Unaware can only be obtained via Dream World, meaning Wooper must use Waterfall if Unaware is used. With Eviolite, Wooper turns into a sturdy physical tank, though its Special Defense stat is rather ordinary even with the boost from Eviolite. Therefore, Wooper should try to stay away from special attacks as much as possible. An Impish nature allows Wooper to take as many physical hits as possible, and the EV spread maximizes Wooper's HP stat, increases its Attack by one point, and boosts its Defense stat by two points.</p>

<p>Bronzor is the greatest teammate to Wooper, being able to set up Stealth Rock, as well as having great synergy with it. Opposing Bronzor are a nightmare for Wooper, being immune to Earthquake, Toxic, and resisting Ice Punch, while not taking much from even Waterfall. Therefore, Magnemite makes a great teammate; having access to Magnet Pull allows it to come in on Bronzor, trap it, and take it out with Thunderbolt in a most efficient manner. Magnemite is also relatively slow, so it can also function well under Trick Room. Pawniard does well against Grass-type Pokemon who cause Wooper trouble, as its Steel typing allows it to switch in on Grass-type attacks, and threaten them with its own powerful STAB attacks.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Yawn is a good option if you want Wooper to force switches, but should only be used with both Stealth Rock and Spikes support. Haze is a decent option for erasing stat boosts on the likes of Shell Smash Clamperl when using Water Absorb. Scald is an option, allowing Wooper to burn potential threats, but the burn rate is not very reliable, and it's not very strong either, due to it coming off of Wooper's low Special Attack stat. Finally, Curse and Stockpile in tangent with Counter are good options, allowing Wooper to boost its Defense to high levels and reflect any weak physical attack for double the damage. Curse should be used if Wooper is more offensively oriented, while Stockpile should be used if Wooper's main objective is to tank as many hits as possible.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Grass-type Pokemon can easily switch in on either of Wooper's STAB attacks, take little damage, and retaliate with a powerful STAB attack of their own. A great example is Ferroseed, who can take any hits with relative ease, is immune to Toxic, and can set up entry hazards before finishing Wooper off with Bullet Seed. Other Grass-type Pokemon perform similarly. However, unlike Ferroseed, most Grass-types are weak to Ice and when played correctly, an Ice Punch coming from Wooper can hurt. Bronzor is a great counter, also being immune to Toxic like Ferroseed, boasting great defenses, and easily switching in and tanking any hits Wooper throws at it. However, Bronzor cannot do much to Wooper either, unless Wooper does not carry Recover, or Bronzor has Toxic. Frillish does not take a lot of damage from Earthquake, can burn Wooper with Will-O-Wisp, and can replenish its health with Recover.</p>