[Overview]

<p>At first glance, it would seem Zigzagoon is a terrible Pokemon in Little Cup. It has some of the lowest stats in the tier, a barren movepool, and near-useless abilities. However, if you look a bit closer, you'll find two gems in its movepool: Belly Drum and ExtremeSpeed. If Zigzagoon can take a hit, it can just boost its Attack stat to four times its original level and sweep without the fear of being revenge killed thanks to ExtremeSpeed. If you learn to play to its strengths, Zigzagoon will prove to be a worthy member of your team.</p>


[SET]
name: Belly Drum
move 1: Belly Drum
move 2: ExtremeSpeed
move 3: Seed Bomb
move 4: Protect
item: Oran Berry
ability: Pickup
nature: Adamant
evs: 196 Atk / 188 Def / 108 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Zigzagoon only needs one set to sweep, and it's this one. After only one turn of setup, its Attack stat is boosted to a jaw-dropping 52, easily OHKOing every common Pokemon in the tier. Oran Berry allows Zigzagoon to restore any HP lost while setting up, allowing it to always pull off a Belly Drum. From here, ExtremeSpeed will easily clean the opposing team, as not only does it have priority over normal moves, but also priority over most other priority moves. There is room for only one coverage move in Zigzagoon's movepool; Seed Bomb allows it to easily KO bulky Rock- and Ground-types that might try to stop its sweep. It also scores an OHKO on Hippopotas, one of the bulkiest Pokemon in the tier. Protect is used to prevent Fake Out from hitting Zigzagoon, allowing it to continue its sweep unscathed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Zigzagoon's Attack , while sharing the leftover EVs between Defense and Special Defense. There is no need for Speed investment on this set, as ExtremeSpeed is a priority move, and Zigzagoon is naturally faster than all of Seed Bomb's targets. Pursuit support or a way to eliminate Ghost-types is nearly mandatory, as nearly all of them can outspeed Zigzagoon and easily OHKO it. Magnemite is also appreciated as a teammate, as it has the Magnet Pull ability to trap the Steel-types that might wall Zigzagoon. Magnemite can also weaken Lileep with Flash Cannon, allowing Zigzagoon to KO it later. Pickup is the only option for this set, as ExtremeSpeed is an event-only move released way back in ADV. While essentially useless, Pickup can situationally come in handy to recover an opponent's consumed item for Zigzagoon's use.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Other than its Belly Drum set, Zigzagoon doesn't have many options. Thief can be used to OHKO Misdreavus after Stealth Rock, but it doesn't have any other use, and Misdreavus will outspeed and KO Zigzagoon anyway with Hidden Power Fighting. A Substitute + Salac Berry set can be used, but it's way harder to pull off and it doesn't accomplish anything the Oran Berry set can't do, except outspeeding and KOing Misdreavus with Seed Bomb after two Stealth Rock switch-ins. A Life Orb mixed all-out attacking set was viable in DPP, but the existence of Eviolite in BW makes Zigzagoon's targets too bulky for it to break through. Zigzagoon has a decent support movepool, with moves such as Thunder Wave, Trick, Sunny Day, and Rain Dance, but it's way too frail to take advantage of it. Choice item sets shouldn't even be mentioned, as Zigzagoon is way too weak to inflict significant damage unboosted.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best counters to Zigzagoon are Ghost-types: Misdreavus, Drifloon and Gastly all work wonders against it, as they can burn Zigzagoon with Will-O-Wisp or simply KO it right off the bat with Hidden Power Fighting, Acrobatics, or Sludge Bomb. Lileep is a decent check, as it can take an ExtremeSpeed nicely and retaliate with Giga Drain for the 2HKO; however, it must be wary of Seed Bomb, as it's 2HKOed by it. Ferroseed is another counter, as its typing grants it resistances to both ExtremeSpeed and Seed Bomb, and its ability, Iron Barbs, allows it to decrease Zigzagoon's lifespan if Zigzagoon attacks. Bronzor can work as a check, thanks to its high defenses, but its lack of recovery means it will have trouble stopping Zigzagoon if it's weakened. Magnemite can take anything Zigzagoon has to offer and threaten it with a powerful STAB Thunderbolt, but non-Eviolite Magnemite has a 25% chance to be OHKOed by +6 ExtremeSpeed. Dratini gets a special mention, as it has access to Extremespeed, too, and is faster than Zigzagoon: Dratini can proceed to KO Zigzagoon if Zigzagoon has received a bit of residual damage.</p>