[Overview]

<p>Abomasnow is unique in the fact that it is the only automatic weather setter in UU. With its ability, Snow Warning, Abomasnow can summon hail for teams that can utilize it to flourish in. That's not all Abomasnow has going for it; it has solid base 92 offensive stats and great offensive options to utilize them with. Abomasnow also has decent defenses to boot, and when combined with key resistances to Water-, Electric-, and Ground-types, Abomasnow can serve as a decent defensive Pokemon that can check threats such as Raikou and Kingdra. However, the fun ends there. Abomasnow has seven crippling weaknesses, not including its weakness to Stealth Rock, which greatly hinder its survivability. A low Speed stat isn't doing it any favors either; many things can outspeed and beat Abomasnow before it can react. Its offensive stats, while solid, are not exactly stellar, so it may not hit hard enough at times. Despite these flaws, Abomasnow makes for a great asset to any hail team in the UU tier.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSeed
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Leech Seed
move 3: Blizzard
move 4: Wood Hammer / Giga Drain
item: Leftovers
ability: Snow Warning
nature: Sassy / Calm
evs: 248 HP / 252 SpD / 8 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Abomasnow's best set is a SubSeed set. With decent bulk and good resistances, Abomasnow can set up Leech Seed on threats such as Raikou, Krookodile, and Slowbro. Abomasnow can wear down the opponent with its automatic hail combined with Leech Seed, making it a solid staller. Unlike other SubSeed users, Abomasnow also has Ice STAB to handle Grass-types that typically stop this strategy cold. Substitute is the first move of this set, as it allows Abomasnow to avoid status while setting up Leech Seed for free and thus recover any HP lost. Leech Seed is important to this set's success as well, as Abomasnow aims to wear down the opponent with hail and Leech Seed while also providing itself with a decent form of recovery. Blizzard is Abomasnow's best STAB move, as it cannot miss under hail, while also dishing out a solid amount of damage. Wood Hammer is chosen as its Grass-type STAB to maim things that don't mind Blizzard, as well as Snorlax and SubCM Raikou. However, Giga Drain is an alternative that's useful as a recovery move and also sports a decent Base Power.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread is specially defensive to allow Abomasnow to check Electric- and Water-types such as Raikou and Suicune and overall take more advantage of Abomasnow's typing. Depending on what move Abomasnow runs for a Grass STAB, either a Calm or Sassy Nature is needed to maximize Special Defense. Leftovers is there as an extra source of recovery, as Abomasnow lacks any outside of Leech Seed. Protect is a useful option over Wood Hammer or Giga Drain to rack up the hail and Leech Seed damage while also damaging Mienshao.</p>

<p>Mienshao is a good teammate to handle opposing Steel-types while not minding hail. Because Abomasnow hates entry hazards of all kinds, Blastoise and Claydol are both useful to remove them while sporting useful defensive type synergy. Xatu is also a usable choice to bounce back entry hazards while spreading paralysis, allowing Abomasnow to stall more easily. Slowbro, Escavalier, and Nidoqueen all have excellent defensive synergy with Abomasnow and can work well in hail, while the latter can take advantage of hail itself with Blizzard. Since Abomasnow summons hail, an Ice-type is ideal to take advantage of it; Rotom-F and Walrein are common hail sweepers that should be used in conjunction with Abomasnow.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Blizzard
move 2: Wood Hammer / Giga Drain
move 3: Earthquake / Focus Punch
move 4: Ice Shard
item: Expert Belt
ability: Snow Warning
nature: Lonely
evs: 252 Atk / 108 SpA / 148 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Abomasnow has good mixed attacking stats and a solid offensive movepool, which allow it to serve as a great mixed attacker. It has excellent coverage with its two STABs alone, and it can break common defensive Pokemon such as Slowbro and Gligar thanks to its mixed attacking prowess. Blizzard serves as primary Ice STAB, packing a great amount of power while boasting perfect accuracy in hail. Wood Hammer is an excellent secondary STAB, hitting Pokemon that resist Blizzard hard while also helping against Snorlax. Giga Drain, however, is useful for recovery while still being decently powerful. Earthquake is a useful coverage move, nailing threats such as Darmanitan and Bisharp, which resist Abomasnow's STABs, for super effective damage. Focus Punch, however, is useful to catch incoming Snorlax if Giga Drain is chosen, while still being useful against Bisharp. Finally, Ice Shard is chosen to pick off weakened opponents and to revenge kill Flygon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs aim to outspeed minimum Speed Blastoise, an important benchmark to hit. Attack is maximized with this EV spread and a Lonely nature is used to deal significant damage to Snorlax, while the remaining EVs are dumped into Special Attack. To be able to effectively revenge kill Flygon, Abomasnow should not invest any lower than 140 EVs in Attack. An Expert Belt is chosen to make good use of Abomasnow's excellent coverage while not wearing it down like a Life Orb would do. Because Abomasnow summons hail, Rotom-F and Walrein are good partners to take advantage of it. Blastoise, Claydol, and Cryogonal are useful to provide Rapid Spin support for Abomasnow, as it dislikes all kinds of entry hazards. Slowbro, Escavalier, and Nidoqueen are useful thanks to their synergy with Abomasnow, while also being able to make good use of the hail themselves. Weather Ball Raikou can also make use of the hail. Mienshao can take care of Steel-types for Abomasnow while not being bothered by the hail thanks to Regenerator. Finally, Xatu is a usable option to bounce back entry hazards and spread paralysis.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Abomasnow has a number of other options at its disposal. It has Focus Punch, which it can run a SubPunch set with, but this is rather situational due to Abomasnow's mediocre defensive typing. It can run a Choice Scarf to revenge kill Pokemon such as Nidoqueen and Honchkrow, but it is far too slow to make effective use of it; for example, even with the boost, it barely misses out on outpacing base 115 Speed Pokemon such as Raikou and Azelf. Abomasnow has a couple of other physical moves such as Avalanche, Double-Edge, and Rock Slide. It can also run Swords Dance, but again, it is too slow to make use of the move. Abomasnow also can run Hidden Power and Shadow Ball as semi-decent coverage moves. Finally, it has some useful support moves such as Toxic and Light Screen, which can be useful to wear down bulkier opponents and soften special hits, respectively.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fire-types, such as Chandelure, Darmanitan, and Victini, are by far Abomasnow's worst nightmare, as they resist both of its STAB moves and hit it super effectively. They must, however, be wary of an incoming Earthquake. Steel-types such as Escavalier and Bisharp are also notable, hitting Abomasnow hard with their STAB moves while again resisting both of its STABs. Flying-types such as Crobat, Togekiss, and Yanmega can check Abomasnow thanks to their STAB hitting it super effectively; however, a Blizzard or Ice Shard can deal serious damage to them on the switch. Fighting-types such as Mienshao and Heracross can hit Abomasnow before it reacts. Snorlax can come in on most of what Abomasnow has to offer aside from Wood Hammer or Focus Punch and retaliate with Fire Punch, Body Slam, or Return. Constant pressure from entry hazards will also quickly shorten Abomasnow's life thanks to its weakness to Stealth Rock. In short, taking advantage of Abomasnow's numerous weaknesses is the best way to remove it. However, the way to remove Abomasnow's hail is to change the weather by the use of Pokemon such as Prankster Tornadus, and to a lesser extent, Volbeat.</p>