[Overview]

<p>Accelgor is the fifth fastest of all Pokemon, and it's the second fastest Pokemon legal in Underused. This gives Accelgor a unique niche in Underused as a fast Spiker. Because of its sheer Speed, it can be considered much more reliable than Roserade or Qwilfish at getting a layer of Spikes up, as it outspeeds all Taunt users, bar Prankster Sableye and Tornadus-I. Accelgor maintains a usable base 100 Special Attack stat with decent coverage options and is able to punish Rapid Spin users that try to switch in on it. However, the rest of Accelgor's stats are deplorable, and it carries a crippling Stealth Rock weakness. Despite its frailty and weakness to Stealth Rock, Accelgor is an underrated threat that is capable of setting up on many Pokemon while being able to throw its weight around, and should be considered when building offensive teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Suicide Spiker
move 1: Spikes
move 2: Bug Buzz
move 3: Focus Blast
move 4: Yawn / U-turn / Final Gambit
item: Focus Sash
ability: Sticky Hold / Unburden
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Using Accelgor's high base 145 Speed, this set is designed to guarantee a layer of Spikes on the opponent's field. The given EVs maximize Accelgor's phenomenal Speed while making good use of its base 100 Special Attack, allowing it to do some damage to the opposition. Spikes is the main reason why you'd ever want to use Accelgor, as it provides excellent team support by removing up to 25% of a grounded opponent's HP. Bug Buzz provides some offensive STAB, dealing sufficient damage to targets such as Shaymin, Weavile, and Azelf. Focus Blast provides decent coverage alongside Bug Buzz, allowing Accelgor to muscle its way through Steel-, Fighting-, and Fire-type opponents, such as Registeel, Hitmontop, and Arcanine. The last slot is preference-based, as Yawn can force a switch, giving Accelgor more time to set up a second layer of Spikes. Alteratively, U-turn allows Accelgor to scout the opposing team and gives it the chance to deploy Spikes later in the match.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The choice of Accelgor's ability is a safety preference thing, as Sticky Hold prevents Trick users from breaking Accelgor with ease, while Unburden ensures that Accelgor will be outspeeding anything bar priority moves, almost guaranteeing a second layer of Spikes. However, if Focus Sash fails to activate, so will Unburden. Final Gambit may be considered in the fourth slot, as it allows Accelgor to sacrifice itself against Rapid Spin users, prevent a Rapid Spin, and bring in a new Pokemon to check the spinner, thus ensuring that the hazards are not removed. However, if opting for Final Gambit, Accelgor should run max HP in order to deal as much damage to the opposing spinner as possible. Giga Drain is also a viable option for Accelgor in the fourth slot, as it hits Blastoise for solid damage while keeping Accelgor relatively healthy.<p>

<p>If opting for U-turn in the fourth slot, a Pokemon with access to Rapid Spin, such as Blastoise or Hitmontop, makes for a great teammate, as it will prevent multiple layers of hazards from accumulating, which would heavily reduce Accelgor's already shaky staying power. Raikou, Darmanitan, and Zapdos make for good teammates, as they can muscle their way past Prankster Sableye and Prankster Tornadus, who otherwise shut this set down with ease. Because of Accelgor's non-existent defenses, bulkier teammates that can take hits aimed at Accelgor are greatly appreciated. Chandelure and Arcanine can absorb Fire-type attacks aimed at Accelgor, while a generally bulky Pokemon, such as Suicune, Snorlax, and Cofagrigus, can help stomach other hits. Ghost-type Pokemon, such as Cofagrigus, Chandelure, and Mismagius, also make for excellent teammates, as they can block opposing Rapid Spins that would otherwise render Accelgor's efforts useless. Pokemon with grounded checks, such as Raikou and Zapdos, also benefit from being paired with Accelgor, as its multiple layers of Spikes helps wear down opposing Swampert and Rhyperior. Both Raikou and Zapdos also have the advantage of keeping the most popular spinner, Blastoise, off the field with their Electric-type STAB.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Bug Buzz
move 2: Focus Blast
move 3: Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Acid Spray / Giga Drain / U-turn
item: Life Orb / Choice Specs
ability: Sticky Hold
nature: Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Taking advantage of Accelgor's legendary Speed and passable Special Attack, this set transforms Accelgor into a formidable revenge killer, capable of forcing switches and catching many walls off-guard. Sticky Hold prevents Knock Off and Trick from removing Accelgor's item, maintaining its offensive prowess. Bug Buzz is its STAB move, dealing hefty chunks of damage to Psychic-, Dark-, and Grass-type Pokemon, such as Slowbro, Sableye, and Roserade. Focus Blast, while inaccurate, provides great coverage alongside Bug Buzz, nailing Steel-, Fire-, and Fighting-types, including Empoleon, Darmanitan, and Mienshao, that resist Bug Buzz. Hidden Power Ice allows Accelgor to decimate opposing Ground-, Flying-, and Dragon-types, such as Flygon, Crobat, and Gligar. The last slot is mostly preference-based. Acid Spray can force switches, forcing the opponent to rack up hazards damage and turn many of Accelgor's 2HKOs into OHKOs. Giga Drain is useful for recovering Life Orb recoil and maintaining Accelgor's survivability. U-turn works well if you opt for Choice Specs, as it allows Accelgor to generate momentum and bring in a formidable check to the opponent's Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Energy Ball may be used over Giga Drain, as it offers a slightly bigger punch, but it prevents Accelgor from recovering its HP. Despite packing a bigger punch, Accelgor will still find it difficult to get past opponents with saturated HP stats, and it appreciates having full entry hazard support from the likes of Rhyperior, Qwilfish, and other hazard layers. Like many special attackers, Accelgor is walled to hell and back by Snorlax and Porygon2, making Mienshao and Cobalion formidable teammates to give Accelgor more room to sweep with either of the special walls removed. Accelgor appreciates being paired up with a Weavile or Chandelure, as it struggles to get past many Ghost-type Pokemon due to its shallow movepool. It also desperately needs Rapid Spin support from either Blastoise or Hitmontop, as its vulnerability to all forms of entry hazard will greatly hinder its ability to open holes in the opposing team.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Hydration and Rest can be used on teams that include Rain Dance Kingdra or Tornadus, but Accelgor will be hard-pressed to find something to safely Rest against. Moves such as Acid Armor, Encore, Recover, and Substitute all provide tenuous answers to Accelgor's terrible defenses, but due to the offensive nature of the Underused tier, Accelgor will find it next to impossible to make any use out of them. Accelgor also has access to Sludge Bomb and Energy Ball, which are the only other offensive moves worth noting in Accelgor's shallow movepool.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Beating Accelgor is extremely easy if Stealth Rock is on the field, as the 25% cut in HP is a death sentence to it, giving even weaker Pokemon the opportunity to KO Accelgor. Prankster Taunt users, specifically Sableye and Tornadus, are solid shut-downs to the suicide Spiker set, bypassing Accelgor's impressive Speed stat and preventing it from using Spikes. However, they must watch out for the all-out attacker set, as Accelgor will blow through them with its powerful attacks. Snorlax and Porygon2 are exceptionally reliable checks to Accelgor, as their saturated special bulk allows them to tank hits from Accelgor all day while dealing severe damage back. Chandelure and other Ghost-types don't fear any of Accelgor's moves, can switch in with impunity, and can deliver hefty amounts of damage via Shadow Ball and other coverage moves. Faster Choice Scarf Pokemon, such as Raikou, Flygon, Darmanitan, and Heracross, can outspeed Accelgor and carry strong STAB or coverage moves capable of crushing it. Hitmontop is also a solid check to Accelgor, as it can basically switch in for free and spin away Spikes. However, Hitmontop must watch out for the odd Final Gambit, as it will be OHKOed.</p>