[OVERVIEW]

<p>Ambipom is no longer the Pokemon it was in DPP. Team Preview has diminished its usefulness as a scouting lead, and in the UU metagame, it finds itself struggling to compete with the stronger Pokemon that now inhabit the tier. Even Ambipom's niche as a fast offensive Normal-type is at stake, as it now faces competition from Cinccino for this title. As dire as things might be for Ambipom, its strong priority in Fake Out and better coverage still help to differentiate it from Cinccino, which is otherwise the superior Pokemon of the two. Fortunately for Ambipom, it also remains one of the faster Pokemon in UU, and the combination of Fake Out and Return can still dispose of frail or weakened Pokemon with ease, while its coverage moves together with the threat of Switcheroo have the potential to take would be counters by surprise. Be warned, though, that Ambipom is not the type of Pokemon you can just throw onto a team and expect instant improvements; in fact, doing so will usually have the opposite effect.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: Fake Out
move 2: Return
move 3: Low Kick
move 4: Beat Up / Shadow Claw
item: Life Orb
ability: Technician
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Strong priority, coverage, and Speed are what Ambipom has going for it, and this set looks to utilize these elements to the fullest. Ambipom's Fake Out is a useful tool for revenging weakened faster Pokemon and maintaining offensive momentum. The combination of Technician-boosted Fake Out and STAB Return will do significant damage to Pokemon lacking bulk or a resistance to it. Low Kick looks to deals with Rock- and Steel-types that would shrug off Normal-type assaults, while Beat Up does away with Ghost-types that are immune to the rest of Ambipom's moves. Low Kick's variable Base Power works well with Technician, as Technician boosts it against foes it hits for low Base Power, while it still maintains high power against heavier Pokemon such as Rhyperior and Registeel. Beat Up is Ambipom's best shot at damaging defensive juggernauts such as Cofagrigus and Slowbro, cleanly 2HKOing Offensive Trick Room Cofagrigus with a team of at least five remaining Pokemon and having a chance to 2HKO defensive Slowbro after Stealth Rock with a full team of six. While lacking the benefits of Beat Up, Shadow Claw is a more reliable alternative and still fares well against Ghost-types such as Chandelure and Mismagius.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is the item of choice here as it allows Ambipom to maintain coverage while striking as hard as possible. The given EVs maximize Ambipom's Attack and Speed, while the leftover EVs are placed in Special Defense to avoid giving Pokemon with the Download ability a Special Attack boost. Low Sweep is an option over Low Kick, providing a potentially useful Speed drop. However, be aware that Low Sweep strengthens the power of Gyro Ball, most notably from Bronzong, a common Ambipom switch-in. Seed Bomb is also an option over Low Kick, as it is able to 2HKO Rhyperior and OHKO Swampert, which usually take Ambipom's other moves with relative ease.</p>

<p>As with all offensive Pokemon, hazards enhance Ambipom's efficacy. Qwilfish makes a fine teammate for Ambipom, as it can switch in comfortably on the Fighting-types that Ambipom tends to draw and lay Spikes. Roserade can also support with Spikes and can set up with ease on bulky Water-types that love to switch into Ambipom as well as defensive Ghost-types such as Cofagrigus and Dusclops. Swampert is a good source of Stealth Rock and can sponge hits directed at Ambipom thanks to its great bulk and typing. Offensively, Ambipom works well with Heracross, which can deal with problematic Pokemon such as Rhyperior while Ambipom is able to lure and severely injure Cofagrigus, which Heracross has an incredibly hard time breaking through. Mienshao is in a similar boat to Heracross, but it can also help break through Gligar, which Ambipom struggles to beat, with a timely Hidden Power Ice.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Return
move 2: Low Kick
move 3: Beat Up / Pursuit
move 4: Switcheroo / U-turn
item: Choice Band
ability: Technician
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set works well due to the popularity of Ambipom's Life Orb set. Pokemon expecting to sponge a Fake Out will take a powerful Choice Band-boosted Return to the face. As this set has no priority to fall back on, it is very reliant on Ambipom's Speed in order to do work. Return is its main weapon, with Low Kick providing coverage against Rock- and Steel-types. The last two moves are where it gets interesting. Beat Up is just as good as it is on the Life Orb set and does the same job, namely keeping Ghost-types at bay. Pursuit, however, is an interesting choice, as it gives Ambipom the opportunity to trap Pokemon such as Chandelure Choice-locked into Shadow Ball. Outside of this, however, a weak Dark-type move is a dangerous thing to be locked into, so exercise caution when using it. Switcheroo is undoubtedly the ace up Ambipom's sleeve. It has the ability to cripple the many defensive Pokemon that commonly switch into Ambipom, such as Suicune, Dusclops, and Slowbro. Be careful about using Switcheroo against physically based Ambipom counters such as Rhyperior, however, as this strategy can end up backfiring. U-turn is a usable alternative, allowing Ambipom to take advantage of the switches that it causes to maintain offensive momentum by gaining a more favorable match-up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs bolster Ambipom's Attack and Speed as much as possible, while the remaining EVs are placed in Special Defense to deny Download Pokemon a Special Attack boost. As with the Life Orb set, hazards are very much appreciated. Qwilfish and Roserade make great partners for their ability to set up and sponge hits from Fighting-types and bulky Water- or Ghost-types respectively. Bronzong is a novel choice for Stealth Rock as it can weather hits in Ambipom's stead while throwing out Toxic to break down defensive Pokemon, making them easier to run through later on. Offensively, this Ambipom pairs well with Azumarill because of its ability to hamper bulky Water-types by leaving them stuck with a Choice Band. Azumarill, which usually struggles to get past bulky Water-types, will have a far easier time with them Choice-locked and unable to counter it properly. In return, Azumarill easily deals with Pokemon such as Rhyperior and Gligar, which tend to cause Ambipom problems. Rotom-H works well as an offensive partner too and, when Ambipom is using U-turn, can form a VoltTurn duo with it. Rotom-H zaps bulky Water-types and fries problematic Steel-types such as Bronzong and Registeel, while Ambipom breaks through Umbreon and Snorlax in return.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>The moves listed in the above sets are those which Ambipom will get the most use out of; however, its relatively wide movepool grants it quite a few alternative options. Fire Punch does a decent amount of damage to Bronzong and can combat the rare Escavalier. Aerial Ace hits Fighting-types such as Hitmontop hard and is boosted by Technician, but outside of this, its coverage is redundant. Thunder Wave, Knock Off, and Taunt are all good support moves, but Ambipom's poor bulk means that it will have difficulty using the moves effectively. Ambipom is also able to boost its stats via Hone Claws, Agility, and Nasty Plot; however once again, Ambipom's frailty means it is often hard-pressed to find an opportunity to use such moves without taking heavy damage. Ambipom can also Baton Pass the aforementioned boosts, but such a job is better left to more sturdy Pokemon, such as Mew and Togekiss. Lastly, while a moveset of nothing but Fake Out and Last Resort may look appealing, it requires far too much support to be worthwhile and is easily walled otherwise.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ambipom can hit hard, but it doesn't hit excessively hard. As such, Pokemon which have immunities and resistances to its STAB moves, as well as those which possess natural bulk, make good counters to it. Sableye stands out as a great counter, as it is immune to both Ambipom's Normal- and Fighting-type moves and can shrug off its Dark- and Ghost-type coverage moves. Sableye can burn Ambipom with Will-O-Wisp, Recover off any damage done, and seriously hurt it with Foul Play. Bulky Steel-types such as Bronzong, Registeel, and Cobalion can cause Ambipom problems, with Cobalion being able to OHKO with its Fighting-type move of choice. However, with the exception of Bronzong, these Pokemon should be wary of Low Kick as it will leave a mark, especially on Cobalion that do not invest in Defense. Rhyperior is in a similar category as the Steel-types, but doesn't have to fear Low Kick as much thanks to Solid Rock and its gargantuan defense. It does have to watch out for the odd Seed Bomb though, as it will 2HKO. Bulky Water-types such as Suicune, Milotic and Slowbro all make fine switch-ins and have the potential to burn Ambipom with Scald. Beat Up with a full team will hurt Slowbro, but Regenerator can offset the damage done. Switcheroo is a danger to all defensive Pokemon, and as such, proceed with extra caution against the Choice Band set.</p>

<p>If taking hits is not an option, faster Pokemon with strong or super effective moves are a good way to check Ambipom. Pokemon that fit this bill include Crobat, Weavile, and Choice Scarf Heracross. Strong priority from the likes of Azumarill, Arcanine, and Honchkrow can also put Ambipom away swiftly. Ambipom is winning no awards defensively, so most neutral hits send it to the grave soon enough.</p>