[Overview]

<p>For a long time, Amoonguss was not a very useful Pokemon on the competitive scene. It was cursed with mediocre stats in all areas bar HP, and its typing is not exactly ideal offensively or defensively. Amoonguss's movepool isn't anything to write home about either outside of Spore, which meant it had little to work with. It was also as a result almost entirely outclassed by numerous Grass-types such as Roserade and Shaymin. All of these bad points led to Amoonguss never seeing any real use.</p>

<p>However, with the transition to BW2, Amoonguss has gained an ability that gives it a new lease on life: Regenerator. Thanks to this wonderful ability, Amoonguss can constantly recover itself upon switching out, while its access to the rare Spore, surprising bulk, and resistances to Water, Electric, and Fighting make it a legitimate threat in UU. Amoonguss's bulk and typing allow it to take on numerous threats in the tier such as Kingdra, Shaymin, and Mienshao. Its movepool, albeit small, has just enough tools for Amoonguss to work with, such as Spore, Clear Smog, and Stun Spore. Despite its middling offensive stats, weaknesses to Fire, Ice, and Flying, and competition from other Grass-types, Amoonguss is still a solid Pokemon for use in UU.</p>

[SET]
name: Physically Defensive
move 1: Spore
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Clear Smog / Sludge Bomb
move 4: Stun Spore / Synthesis
item: Leftovers
ability: Regenerator
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Amoonguss's flagship set, which it pulls off quite decently. Thanks to good bulk and resistances allowing it to take on threats such as Zapdos, Mienshao, and Kingdra, this set can be a good fit on more defensive teams. While it faces stiff competition as a defensive Grass-type from Roserade, Amoonguss stands out with its perfectly accurate Spore, Regenerator, and good physical defense. Spore is the big selling point of this set, completely incapacitating an opponent. With the new sleep mechanics, this is essentially eliminating said Pokemon from the match. Giga Drain is the primary STAB move, dealing a decent amount of damage and restoring HP. Clear Smog is the preferred move in the next moveslot, as although extremely weak, it resets stat changes, allowing Amoonguss to deter setup chances. Sludge Bomb is, however, acceptable if the extra power is preferred over resetting stat boosts. Finally, Stun Spore is the chosen move to cripple opponents with paralysis after one Pokemon has fallen to Spore. However, Synthesis can be used as reliable recovery.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread invests maximum HP and Defense to allow Amoonguss to more reliably check threats such as Kingdra and Mienshao, still leaving Amoonguss with enough special bulk to take on Raikou. A specially defensive EV spread can be used to more reliably check special variants of Kingdra as well as Raikou and Zapdos. However, this also leaves Amoonguss more prone to Heracross. Leftovers is the chosen item for its consistent recovery. Regenerator is the preferred ability as a means of free recovery should Amoonguss be forced out of the battle.</p>

<p>Slowbro is an excellent teammate for Amoonguss, resisting most attacks that Amoonguss fears and vice versa. Slowbro also forms a Regenerator core with Amoonguss as they both sport the ability. Additionally, entry hazard support from the likes of Qwilfish or Bronzong is helpful, as Amoonguss may force some switches. Finally, a Dark-type such as Bisharp can be helpful to keep opposing Psychic-types at bay. Bisharp in particular benefits from Amoonguss being able to take on its common counters, such as Fighting-types.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Spore
move 2: Giga Drain
move 3: Sludge Bomb
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Stun Spore
item: Life Orb
ability: Regenerator
nature: Modest
evs: 120 HP / 128 Def / 252 SpA / 8 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Despite an average 85 Special Attack, Amoonguss can effectively take on an offensive role. This set hits decently hard, standing out from its main competitors with Spore being able to incapacitate an opponent as well as Regenerator being able to heal off Life Orb damage. Its decent bulk along with its typing also ensure that it will be able to last long enough to be able to dent an opposing team. Spore is again used to basically eliminate an opponent from the match with the fifth generation sleep mechanics. Giga Drain is the preferred STAB move here, hitting for solid damage while also proving Amoonguss with recovery. Sludge Bomb is essential secondary STAB; it hits Grass-types hard while hitting neutrally against incoming Fire-types such as Darmanitan. Hidden Power Fire is the preferred coverage move here to hit Steel-types such as Bisharp and Cobalion for heavy damage. Stun Spore, however, can be used in order to cripple an opponent, making up for Amoonguss's low Speed stat.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum is invested into Special Attack to hit as hard as possible. 120 HP EVs give an HP stat that works best with the Life Orb. The remaining EVs are dumped into Defense to add overall bulk. Regenerator is the ability of choice here as a form of recovery should Amoonguss be forced out; it also works well with Life Orb wearing Amoonguss down. A Life Orb is the preferred item for its additional power as Amoonguss is playing an offensive role. Hidden Power Rock is a notable option that can be used over Hidden Power Fire in order to hit Chandelure, but Chandelure can be incapacitated with Spore and Hidden Power Fire has more general utility.</p>

<p>As with the previous set, Slowbro makes for a great teammate, sporting both good defensive and offensive synergy with Amoonguss, and it can also set up Trick Room, which works well with Amoonguss's low Speed stat. Spikes support from the likes of Froslass or Qwilfish is useful to help Amoonguss attain more needed KOs that it may otherwise miss out on. As Chandelure may be troublesome, Houndoom or Arcanine is useful to keep opposing Chandelure at bay while being able to maim bulky Steel-types that trouble Amoonguss. Finally, a weapon against Psychic-types such as Azelf or Mew is useful. Bisharp and Escavalier are both good examples of these, and can keep Psychic-types in check.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Amoonguss doesn't have a lot of other options it can use effectively. That said, there are some tricks it can pull off. Venoshock is one that stands out the most, as when used in conjunction with either Toxic or Toxic Spikes it can be very lethal against the opposing team. However, this is very situational and such strategy requires significant support. Growth is a useful boosting move to enhance Amoonguss's average offensive stats, making it a bigger threat. Unfortunately, Amoonguss's low Speed cripples it to the point where it won't find much time to successfully set up. Grass Knot is decent, and can hit Suicune for significantly more damage, but Giga Drain is much more reliable. Body Slam can work to paralyze an opponent while dealing decent damage, but Stun Spore is much more reliable. Payback is also usable as it can catch incoming Chandelure while working well with Amoonguss's low Speed. Foul Play is very interesting, and the ability to catch incoming Darmanitan and Victini can be useful in some situations. This however is difficult to fit in a moveslot. Finally, Amoonguss has access to Rain Dance and Sunny Day to support weather oriented teams, and is quite bulky to boot. However, you're often better off using Azelf or Bronzong, which either have a better typing or stronger offensive stats, to utilize these moves.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Of the things that can check or counter Amoonguss, the ones that stand out most are the ones that don't mind falling for Spore. The most notable of these is Xatu. Thanks to Magic Bounce, it can reflect back Spore and overall prevent Amoonguss from doing much of any value. Roserade doesn't exactly mind Spore thanks to Natural Cure, and is capable of incapacitating Amoonguss with Sleep Powder before it reacts. Users of Sleep Talk, such as Snorlax, Yanmega, Crobat, Heracross, and Escavalier can all put hurt on Amoonguss even while asleep. That aside, thanks to the number of weaknesses Amoonguss has, there are a number of Pokemon that can take Amoonguss down. Fire-types such as Chandelure, Darmanitan, and Victini can remove Amoonguss quickly from the battlefield. Honchkrow, Crobat, and Togekiss also don't care about Amoonguss at all. Mew, Azelf, Meloetta, and Weavile are also good Pokemon to take Amoonguss on. Taunt and Substitute are both great ways to stop Amoonguss, as it cannot pull off a Spore afterwards. Bisharp is a great example as it doesn't mind much of anything else Amoonguss has to offer, barring Hidden Power Fire on the offensive set, and can use it as setup fodder. Finally, if needed, you can use Trick on Amoonguss to essentially render it useless for the remainder of the match.</p>