[Overview]

<p>Although the transition to BW introduced many strong threats, Azumarill continues to be a force to be reckoned with. Its ability Huge Power gives it a monstrous Attack stat comparable to that of behemoths such as Groudon. While it is rather slow, it has access to STAB priority in Aqua Jet, allowing it to strike first even when it is slower. Likewise, it is quite bulky, possessing 100 / 80 / 80 defenses; with the HP stat Azumarill is able to make 101 HP Substitutes. In a tier filled with Registeel and Dusclops, being able to set up Substitutes that survive Seismic Toss is a rather big deal. Unfortunately, Azumarill is really slow and rather one-dimensional, making it very predictable. Nonetheless, whether it's Azumarill's brute force, bulk, STAB priority, or dastardly good looks that earns it a spot on your team, you can rest assured knowing that it will be an effective contributor to your success.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Aqua Jet
move 3: Return / Double-Edge
move 4: Ice Punch / Superpower
item: Choice Band
ability: Huge Power
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Azumarill's bread-and-butter set. With a Choice Band equipped and its Huge Power ability, Azumarill boasts an insane 654 Attack stat, which allows it to effectively break through many UU walls. Waterfall is Azumarill's most consistent STAB move, and Pokemon who do not resist it are either OHKOed or heavily damaged. Aqua Jet enables it to act as a revenge killer as well, as it can pick off wounded Pokemon such as Zapdos, Flygon, and Victini. The choice between Return and Double-Edge is a question of longevity versus ridiculous power. Return is the safer of the two, giving Azumarill a solid attacking option against Water-types such as Slowbro without cutting away at Azumarill's health. Double-Edge, however, grants it an impressive power boost at the cost of adding recoil; in fact, it is so powerful that it allows Azumarill to 2HKO 252 HP / 252 Def Bold Milotic. The last moveslot is also dictated by what threats you need Azumarill to hit. Ice Punch hits unsuspecting Grass-types such as Shaymin or Tangrowth hard on the switch. On the other hand, Superpower gives it an option to smack Steel-types such as Registeel and Ferroseed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread maximizes bulk and power, with the 4 Speed EVs enabling Azumarill to outspeed Pokemon with base 50 Speed and minimum investment, such as Registeel and Tangrowth. Despite the massive power of this set, many Pokemon give it problems. Bulky Grass- and Water-type Pokemon, such as Shaymin, Blastoise, and Empoleon, give Azumarill a hard time. Powerful attackers, such as Victini and Zapdos, can handle such threats very well, making them great teammates for Choice Band Azumarill. Pokemon that benefit from having walls being weakened or removed are good offensive partners for this set. Setup sweepers such as Azelf, Raikou, and Cobalion can sweep more effectively if opposing Milotic and Slowbro are weakened sufficiently.</p>

<p>Azumarill can use 148 Speed EVs instead of 4 to outspeed minimum Speed Hitmontop. Likewise, it can use Toxic instead of Return or Double Edge to cripple Water-type switch-ins. However, Return or Double-Edge already does a lot of damage, so this isn't necessary. Outside of bulky Water- and Grass-type Pokemon, this set is relatively hard to switch into. However, since this is a Choice set, proper prediction is important; when it's locked into the wrong move, Azumarill isn't very threatening. Finally, in order to break through the toughest of walls, Azumarill requires entry hazard support, as the sheer power of this set forces switches constantly. With the support of Spikes and Stealth Rock, Azumarill will be able to turn many 2HKOs into OHKOs. Roserade makes an excellent partner for Azumarill, as it can comfortably take the Grass-type attacks aimed at Azumarill while also laying Spikes and Toxic Spikes. Roserade's own STAB Grass-type attacks also enable it to eliminate bulky Water-types such as Milotic, Slowbro, and Blastoise.</p>

[SET]
name: SubPunch
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Focus Punch
move 3: Waterfall / Ice Punch
move 4: Aqua Jet / Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Huge Power
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike the Choice Band set, this set requires a bit of set up before it can start wrecking its opponents. This set works best when under a Substitute, and with the given HP investment, Azumarill can make 101 HP Substitutes. By hitting this magic number, Azumarill is now able to set up in the face of Registeel and Dusclops, who are unable to break Azumarill's Substitutes with Seismic Toss or Night Shade. With its Substitute intact, Azumarill is free to use Focus Punch to obliterate the opposition. With maximum Attack investment and its ability Huge Power, Azumarill hits ridiculously hard. Focus Punch has lost some of its effectiveness with the loss of Chansey and Mamoswine from UU; however, it still lets this set effectively check the common Registeel. Substitute, though imperative as a launchpad for Focus Punch, also allows Azumarill to use its other attacks in safety. Waterfall gives Azumarill a very reliable STAB move that lets it hit Victini and other Pokemon who resist or are immune to Fighting-type attacks, such as Mew or Dusclops. Ice Punch can be used instead if you would rather hit Grass-type Pokemon, such as Tangrowth, who will otherwise wall Azumarill. Finally, Aqua Jet gives Azumarill useful priority to mitigate its terrible Speed; it also allows Azumarill to act as a potent revenge killer, picking off weakened Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Without the raw power provided by Choice Band, Azumarill is no longer able to break through many walls. Primarily, Azumarill no longer threatens bulky Water-type Pokemon such as Milotic, who can break the Substitute with repeated Surfs or Scalds and then inflict a status condition. Another wall that stands out is Slowbro, who resists every move on this set. To bypass this problem, Toxic can be used instead of Aqua Jet. However, it should be noted that Aqua Jet is generally more useful, and frail threats such as Azelf are numerous. Once again, Grass-types make good teammates to check the mentioned bulky Water-types. Shaymin can threaten Milotic, Slowbro, and Suicune with a STAB super effective Seed Flare, while Roserade sets up Spikes or Toxic Spikes as they switch out to avoid taking a Leaf Storm to the face. Offensive Zapdos makes for another great teammate, posing as a huge threat to Water-types as well as Grass-types with Heat Wave. Azumarill can also function as a team player by replacing one of its attacking options with Encore, providing a free turn for itself or a teammate to set up. For example, by locking Milotic into Recover, a teammate can gain a free turn to set up, or Azumarill can set up Substitute in safety.</p>

<p>In order to continue making Substitutes, Azumarill needs Wish support, as it only has Leftovers for recovery. Therefore, Clefable or Umbreon are great teammates with their proficiency in passing Wish. Likewise, this set forces switches very well, as Focus Punch is a scarily powerful move. If entry hazards are on the field at the time, it will help Azumarill soften up the walls that give it problems or wear down the Pokemon who switch in on the resisted Focus Punch.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Azumarill really doesn't have too many alternative options. It can use a Life Orb instead of a Choice Band on the first set, but this isn't recommended because it really needs the increased power of a Choice Band to break through walls. You can use Aqua Tail instead of Waterfall if the increased power appeals to you, though the consistency and flinch chance of Waterfall make it the better option. As mentioned before, Azumarill's access to Toxic and Encore makes a support set feasible, but this is outclassed by bulkier support Pokemon. More Speed can be used to get the jump on Pokemon such as Hitmontop, who don't frequently invest in Speed. Managing to pull off a Belly Drum is a near impossible task, and in addition to that, Azumarill's poor Speed won't let it excel. Keep in mind that Aqua Jet is illegal with Belly Drum. Finally, Thick Fat grants Azumarill a very nifty 4x resistance to Ice- and Fire-type attacks. However, the whole purpose of using Azumarill is to have it hit like a wrecking ball thanks to Huge Power, making Thick Fat a bad option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As powerful as this adorable rodent is, it still has problems with many Pokemon. Its biggest nemeses are bulky Grass- and Water-type Pokemon. Grass-types such as defensive Shaymin or Tangrowth can tank any hit Azumarill has to offer, even surviving a Choice Band Ice Punch. They can then OHKO Azumarill with their respective STAB attacks. Victreebel and Roserade also resist Fighting-type attacks, making them counters to SubPunch Azumarill that lack Ice Punch, though Roserade will not hold up to even resisted physical attacks. Bulky Water-types are also very threatening. Milotic, Slowbro, and Slowking can cripple Azumarill with status while healing off any damage with Recover or Slack Off; Suicune sets up Calm Mind with impunity, and heals off any damage taken with Rest. Though very rare, Frillish hard counters all sets without Toxic. Empoleon also walls Azumarill if it lacks Superpower. Physically bulky Pokemon, such as Dusclops, Cofagrigus, and Weezing can tank any hit Azumarill has to offer and threaten it with Will-O-Wisp. Finally, some faster Pokemon who are not OHKOed by Aqua Jet, such as Zapdos, threaten Azumarill with their powerful STAB or super effective attacks, forcing it to switch.</p>