[Overview]

<p>Bronzong's outstanding base 116 Defense and Special Defense stats, combined with its unique typing in the tier which grants it eight resistances and two immunities, make it an impressive tank. Bronzong takes powerful attacks from all-out attackers such as Cincinno, Flygon, and Weavile with ease, and it heavily damages them with Gyro Ball in return. Bronzong also has a handful of support moves such as Stealth Rock, Hypnosis, and Gravity. In addition, Bronzong can even play a offensive role with Trick Room because it OHKOes Pokemon such as Chandelure, Nidoking, and Raikou. Unfortunately, Bronzong's downfall is lack of reliable recovery, making it worn down by multiple attacks. Nonetheless, Bronzong is an astounding wall and can aid your team with proper support.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Gyro Ball
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Earthquake
item: Leftovers
ability: Levitate
nature: Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Bronzong's main job is to set up Stealth Rock. Its wonderful defensive typing allows it many opportunities to switch into battle, such as against Snorlax, Rhyperior, Flygon, Tornadus, or Shaymin. Because of its great bulk and only having one weakness, it's so difficult to KO that it can easily put Stealth Rock on the field. Gyro Ball is a staple on Bronzong, as its low Speed stat often makes Gyro Ball's Base Power 150. It allows Bronzong to 2HKO dangerous threats such as Flygon, Heracross, and Krookodile. Toxic is great for crippling walls such as Blastoise, Hitmontop, Porygon2, and Slowbro. It also prevents bulky setup Pokemon, such as Calm Mind Slowbro, from setting up on Bronzong. Thanks to Bronzong's immunity to Toxic, it can win many stall wars while taking little damage in return. Finally, Earthquake rounds off Bronzong's moveset, as it allows Bronzong to hit Fire- and Electric-types such as Arcanine, Chandelure, and Raikou for super effective damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Relaxed nature and 0 Speed IVs allow Bronzong to maximize Gyro Ball's power. A physically defensive spread is preferable so that Bronzong can take as many hits as possible from physical attackers, such as Rhyperior, Flygon, and Krookodile, but a specially defensive spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD with Sassy nature can be used to take special hits better from common Pokemon such as Raikou, Porygon-Z, Roserade, and Yanmega. Bronzong can also utilize an attacking spread of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD with a Brave nature, and Explosion instead of Toxic on more offensive teams. This set deals significantly more damage than other sets and Explosion ensures that Pokemon such as Kingdra can't use Bronzong as setup bait, which is invaluable for offensive teams. Heatproof may seem tempting to use because Bronzong becomes neutral to Fire-type attacks, but it's generally inferior to Levitate as it allows Bronzong to be immune, rather than weak, to Ground-type moves and avoid Spikes damage. Heavy Metal should never be used because Bronzong's other abilities give it more defensive utility. Hidden Power Ice is an option to hit Gligar and other Flying-types for some heavy damage while still being able to 2HKO Flygon. Protect can be used instead of Toxic to scout Fire-types using a Choice item, and it provides Bronzong with a little extra health from Leftovers. As Bronzong lacks reliable recovery, a Wish passer such as Umbreon or Togekiss is recommended to extend its longevity. Bronzong pairs very well with bulky Water-type Pokemon, such as Slowbro, Slowking, Suicune, and Swampert. They can take Fire-type attacks aimed at Bronzong, while Bronzong can take Grass-type attacks aimed at them. Slowking, Suicune, and Swampert are also notable for their ability to phaze, as Bronzong's weak offensive presence allows Pokemon to set up on it. Swampert can also check SubRoost Zapdos, which Bronzong struggles to damage.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screen
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Gyro Ball
move 4: Earthquake / Stealth Rock
item: Light Clay
ability: Levitate
nature: Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses on setting up dual screens so that Bronzong's teammates can set up and sweep much more easily. Light Clay is a mandatory item for Bronzong because it allows Reflect or Light Screen to stay up an extra three turns, which can be crucial in some situations. An uninvested STAB Gyro Ball coming from Bronzong still packs quite a punch, as it can do significant damage to Flygon, Virizion, and Yanmega. Earthquake is the ideal choice in the last slot, as it hits Electric-, Fire-, and Steel-types such as Cobalion, Raikou, and Victini exceptionally hard. However, Stealth Rock can also be used in that slot if Bronzong's team lacks a Pokemon that carries it, but it is hard to find the time to set up both screens and Stealth Rock, and the lack of Earthquake means that Bronzong is defenseless against Electric-, Fire-, and Steel-type Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Relaxed nature and 0 Speed IVs are used again to maximize Bronzong's Gyro Ball damage output. A physically defensive spread is the preferred spread as the Pokemon Bronzong traditionally walls, such as Krookodile, Rhyperior, and Flygon, are physical attackers; however, because this set is focused on setting up protective screens rather than walling, a specially defensive spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD with a Sassy nature would be about as effective. Bronzong can also use a more offensive set of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD with a Brave nature and Explosion in the last moveslot. It has the bulk to set up even without defensive investment, and it can use Explosion to give a sweeper a free switch into battle, while at the same time dealing significant damage to the opponent. Hypnosis seems appealing, but the 60% accuracy can be unreliable. You may even opt to use Toxic, as walls such as Blastoise, Mew, and Porygon2 may try to stall out your screens. Dual screen Bronzong should be paired with many powerful setup sweepers, as the screens give them the opportunity they need to start sweeping. Nasty Plot Azelf, Dragon Dance Kingdra, Nasty Plot or Swords Dance Mew, Swords Dance Weavile, Dragon Dance Scrafty, or even a Pokemon from lower tiers such as Shell Smash Omastar or Dragon Dance Feraligatr can get crucial turns needed to set up from Bronzong's dual screens.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Bronzong has quite a few other options that it could use. For example, a Calm Mind set is quite usable, but because UU is such an offensive metagame, Bronzong gets worn down too quickly to utilize this set. An offensive Trick Room set with Earthquake, Explosion, and Gyro Ball is quite appealing, as it can OHKO many offensive threats such as Chandelure, Raikou, and Nidoking. A Rain Dance support set can be used as it negates Bronzong's Fire-type weakness while assisting Swift Swim users to sweep. Trick with Lagging Tail or a Choice item can surprise your opponent and effectively hinder a Pokemon. As Bronzong has no reliable recovery, a RestTalk set could be used, but Bronzong usually won't get the chance to wake up due to threats such as Darmanitan and Victini pressuring it to switch out. Bronzong has access to Heavy Metal, but it should never be used because Bronzong's other abilities give it more defensive utility. Finally, Bronzong has other attacking moves such as Zen Headbutt, Rock Slide, and Payback. Zen Headbutt can be used to hit Fighting-types hard, but its base power is significantly lower than Gyro Ball's in most situations. Rock Slide gives Bronzong a way to damage SubRoost Zapdos, but its low base power makes its useless in most situations. Payback can be used to deal acceptable damage to Mew, but it has no further use.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Because Bronzong's main job is to set up and start walling, there are numerous Pokemon that can stop Bronzong in its tracks. Fire-types such as Victini, Chandelure, Darmanitan, and Rotom-H severely threaten Bronzong, as their STAB moves can OHKO Bronzong. Xatu's Magic Bounce bounces back Stealth Rock and Toxic, although Bronzong fortunately can't be poisoned. However, Xatu cannot do much to Bronzong outside of Night Shade and the rare Heat Wave. Crobat can prevent Bronzong from setting up Stealth Rock and dual screens and can heal Gyro Ball damage with Roost, but struggles to do much damage in return. Mew and Sableye can prohibit Bronzong from setting up Stealth Rock and cripple it with Will-O-Wisp. Furthermore, Baton Pass Mew can Taunt Bronzong and set up with Nasty Plot, Swords Dance, or Rock Polish before passing its boosts to a recipient such as Nidoking or Flygon. Swords Dance Heracross can set up in Bronzong's face, and being poisoned only increases its power. The uncommon Magnet Rise Magneton does a great job of taking out Bronzong, as long as it doesn't switch in on an Earthquake. Finally, bulky sweepers, such as Suicune, Scrafty, and Togekiss, can set up in Bronzong's face and can heal any damage dealt and any status inflicted.</p>