[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Cinccino does not look very threatening. Speed is its only decent stat, and it also suffers from a poor movepool with no viable way of hitting Steel-type Pokemon. However, Skill Link turns Cinccino from a mediocre Pokemon to a threat that all UU teams should be prepared for. Skill Link allows Cinccino to effectively utilize its multi-hit moves, as they will always hit 5 times, with the added benefit of breaking Substitutes and Focus Sashes while continuing to attack. So, what is this cute little thing doing in RU? The answer to this is simple; it is walled by common Steel-type Pokemon such as Bronzong and Cobalion, and it is easily revenge killed by Choice Scarf users due to its poor defenses. Regardless of its flaws, however, Cinccino can give headaches to teams that lack Steel-types.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Tail Slap
move 2: Rock Blast
move 3: Bullet Seed
move 4: U-turn
item: Life Orb / Choice Band
ability: Skill Link
nature: Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes full advantage of everything Cinccino can use competitively. Factoring in STAB, Tail Slap hits 187 Base Power, meaning anything that doesn't resist it will be hit hard. Alongside Tail Slap, Cinccino has two more multi-hit moves to take advantage of. Rock Blast is its best option against the likes of Chandelure and Zapdos, potentially hitting them through Substitute, while Bullet Seed lets it handle Rhyperior and is its strongest option against bulky Water-types. In the early game, U-turn is a great move to have, scouting for the opponent's switch-ins and reacting accordingly.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Cinccino should always run maximum Attack and maximum Speed, as it is too frail for investment in bulk to make a difference. Life Orb is the preferred item to use as this allows Cinccino to switch moves, but Choice Band gives it a little more power and doesn't have Life Orb's recoil. Additionally, Life Orb recoil and Stealth Rock damage could lead to Cinccino being weakened more quickly than usual, which a Choice Band avoids. As Cinccino has trouble beating Steel-types, its best teammates are those who can handle Steel-types. Chandelure can beat any Steel-type bar Empoleon and Cobalion, as well as bulky Ghost-types such as Cofagrigus, while Choice Scarf Mienshao or Heracross handles Empoleon and Cobalion. Magneton is another excellent teammate as it can trap Steel-types thanks to its Magnet Pull ability.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Unfortunately, Cinccino doesn't have any other options that are worth using. Although Return is much more accurate than Tail Slap, it is noticeably weaker and Cinccino needs all the power it can get. Cinccino learns Aqua Tail, but it has better options to hit anything Aqua Tail covers. Work Up can be used to boost its mediocre Attack stat, but Cinccino doesn't have the resistances or bulk to set up. Wake-Up Slap is its best option against Steel-types, but 60 Base Power simply doesn't cut it. Although Technician may look appealing to boost Wake-Up Slap, Skill Link is what makes Cinccino worth using at all, so it should just stick to abusing Skill Link.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Steel-types give Cinccino a run for its money. Bronzong has massive physical bulk and resists all of Cinccino's attacks bar U-turn, and Gyro Ball will do massive damage to Cinccino. Cobalion can easily tank any hit and OHKO Cinccino with Close Combat, while Registeel takes hits from Cinccino all day and cripples it with Thunder Wave. Although Bisharp is not as bulky as the other Steel-types mentioned, it can hit Cinccino hard with Sucker Punch. In addition, bulky Ghost-types will trouble Cinccino thanks to their immunity to Tail Slap. Cofagrigus and Dusclops easily take any hit from Cinccino, while they can use Will-O-Wisp to weaken it. Thanks to its Prankster ability, Sableye can burn Cinccino before it even gets the chance to attack. Hitmontop can also take it on thanks to Intimidate and STAB Close Combat. Aside from beating it with defensive Pokemon, it's also easy to revenge kill thanks to its virtually nonexistent bulk. Choice Scarf Heracross and Mienshao immediately come to mind, but even the weak Choice Scarf Flygon can revenge kill it.</p>