[Overview]

<p>Once regarded as one of the best walls in the game, Cresselia has fallen far from its throne. It is the bulkiest mixed wall in the series bar Lugia and Giratina, but is hampered by its mono-Psychic typing. However, not all is lost, for the swan of the northern lights has returned to UU once more to let its presence be known. With a vast support movepool consisting of dual screens, Thunder Wave, Toxic, Trick Room, and of course, its signature move, Lunar Dance, Cresselia can easily flutter its way onto any team. Colossal bulk, as well as a fantastic ability in Levitate, allows Cresselia to reach for the moon, shutting down many prominent UU attackers. However, not all bodes well for Cresselia, for UU is a hostile environment, consisting of many powerful Dark- and Bug-types that keep this majestic figure in shackles.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Moonlight
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Hidden Power Fighting / Ice Beam
move 4: Thunder Wave / Toxic
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Cresselia's typing, ability, and monstrous bulk allow it to take on a legion of powerful Fighting- and Ground-types in UU. With access to instant recovery in Moonlight, Cresselia becomes a nearly insurmountable obstacle for these otherwise dangerous threats. Although this set invests primarily in physical bulk, Cresselia's natural special bulk allows it to sponge powerful special attacks as well. Psychic is a decently powerful STAB move to extirpate Fighting-types, such as Hitmontop and Machamp. Beware, though, that Heracross can dig Cresselia a shallow grave with Megahorn. Hidden Power Fighting is the coverage move of choice, as it deals decent damage to Dark-type switch-ins, such as Bisharp, and is also Cresselia's best option against Cobalion. However, Ice Beam eliminates the likes of Flygon. Thunder Wave and Toxic are both excellent options for shutting down opposing offensive Pokemon; Thunder Wave debilitates fast, frail sweepers, whereas Toxic cripples bulky set-up sweepers.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Cresselia can opt to run both Thunder Wave and Toxic, but this makes it more difficult to finish off dangerous threats. Sand greatly hinders Cresselia's longevity, since it not only cancels out Leftovers, but also greatly nerfs Moonlight. Cresselia is also greatly hindered by status itself; Toxic, in particular, forces it to switch out. Rest is a viable option to deal with these issues, although current sleep mechanics make this unreliable. Reflect can be used to shut down almost every physical attacker in the tier, although STAB Megahorn will still do a number on Cresselia. Light Screen can also be used to provide insurance against powerful special attackers. Similarly, Cresselia can opt for an alternative EV spread of 252 HP / 252 SpD / 4 Def with a Calm nature, functioning similarly to other special walls in the tier but with the added benefit of handling many physical threats very well. However, most offensive threats in the metagame are physically oriented, so physical Defense investment is still preferred.</p>

<p>As mentioned before, Dark-types are the bane of Cresselia's existence. Ironically, the very Pokemon Cresselia exists to eliminate, Fighting-types, such as Hitmontop, make great teammates, as they can easily beat down those shady characters. While we're on the topic of irony, Dark-types, such as Weavile, also make great teammates for their ability to take out pesky Ghost-types. A powerful Fire-type, such as Rotom-H or Darmanitan can roast powerful Bug-types, such as Heracross and Escavalier, who threaten Cresselia with their powerful Megahorns. Although Cresselia's defensive stats are phenomenal, it can still be overwhelmed by intense offensive pressure. Therefore, it is recommended to pair Cresselia with other sturdy walls, such as Registeel and Milotic, to lessen its workload.</p>

[SET]
name: Dual Screens
move 1: Reflect
move 2: Light Screen
move 3: Lunar Dance
move 4: Psychic / Hidden Power Fighting
item: Light Clay
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 176 Def / 80 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Cresselia has impressive bulk, no doubt, and it certainly makes a great check to a horde of powerful attackers, but Cresselia can easily make use of those titanic defenses to support the team in another manner: dual screens. The lunar maiden can withstand the most savage blows, and should have no problem getting up Reflect and Light Screen. The fact that these moves augment its already impressive defensive stats doesn't hurt either, and Cresselia can easily set up dual screens multiple times throughout the match.</p>

<p>Light Clay is the item of choice, as it gives the best mileage out of your screens. Although Leftovers is tempting given Cresselia's fantastic bulk, Cresselia can survive an encounter with even the most powerful of attackers, and those extra three turns of screens are much more beneficial. However, what separates Cresselia from the crowd is its signature move, Lunar Dance. This move sacrifices Cresselia, but in return, heals a teammate to full HP, and cures them of all status ailments. Not only does this give a battered sweeper a second lease of life, it also potentially provides the sweeper with a free set-up opportunity; in essence, Lunar Dance is the ultimate momentum move, and can shift the tides of a game. The last slot is dedicated to an offensive move to ensure Cresselia is not a sitting duck (pun not intended) when Taunted. Psychic is preferred, as it is Cresselia's most powerful move, although Hidden Power Fighting can be used to hit Dark-type switch-ins.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Thunder Wave can be used instead of either Lunar Dance or Psychic, but replacing the former takes away one of Cresselia's greatest assets, while replacing the latter leaves Cresselia prone to Taunt. Moonlight is an option to improve Cresselia's longevity, but realistically, you should be using Lunar Dance on the way out. Leftovers can be used to improve Cresselia's survivability as well, but Cresselia should focus on providing screens for its teammates rather than surviving. The EV spread gives Cresselia the ability to tank hits from both sides, although one could alter the spread based on preference.</p>

<p>Although Cresselia is a defensive Pokemon, this set functions best on an offensively oriented team. Dual screens give frail sweepers an easier time setting up, while Lunar Dance could potentially grant them a second opportunity to sweep. Of course, this set is greatly hampered by status, especially Toxic, due to the lack of recovery. One could opt for either a Wish passer or a cleric to keep Cresselia happy. However, as mentioned before, this set works best on high octane offensive teams, so it may be difficult to fit those onto the team. A more feasible option is to pair it with a Pokemon such as Heracross, who can nab an Attack boost from status moves and wreak havoc behind screens.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Psyshock / Psychic
move 4: Hidden Power Fighting / Ice Beam
item: Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Although Cresselia's main boon is its bulk, it can still run a Calm Mind set to pose an offensive presence. However, Calm Mind is honestly more useful for driving its Special Defense to untouchable levels. After just one Calm Mind boost, Cresselia becomes a nearly impenetrable fortress, though it needs multiple boosts before it can pose any sort of offensive threat. This set is best used as a stallbreaker, Cresselia can set up massive Substitutes that block status and are incredibly difficult to break for the offensively challenged walls commonly found on stall teams. Psyshock is the preferred STAB move, as Cresselia often has difficulty winning Calm Mind wars due to its unimpressive Special Attack, however Psychic does more immediate and consistent damage in the long run. Hidden Power Fighting is the recommended coverage move, as it hits Dark- and Steel-types, who laugh at Psyshock. Ice Beam can be used to hit Pokemon such as Flygon and Rhyperior harder, but is generally inferior to Hidden Power Fighting.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The given EV spread maximizes Speed while retaining solid bulk. A more defensive EV spread can be used, but the extra Speed is helpful for speed tying opposing base 85s, most notably Heracross. You could also opt to invest in Special Attack, but Cresselia would need multiple boosts to sweep regardless. Moonlight or Rest can be used in place of Substitute, but the former makes Cresselia prone to status while the latter is unreliable. Due to its lackluster Special Attack, Cresselia has difficulty winning Calm Mind wars, so a powerful physical attacker such as Heracross and Weavile can be used to take them out. Although most Cresselia sets function as team supporters, this set is more selfish so to speak, and functions well as a stand alone sweeper.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Cresselia's claim to fame is its godly defensive stats, but it does have some interesting support options worth looking into. Some notable moves include Trick Room, Gravity, Sunny Day, Rain Dance, Safeguard, and Magic Coat. Magic Coat protects Cresselia from crippling status moves. One could even use Cresselia as a "counter-stallbreaker" by using Magic Coat to deflect Taunt. Unfortunately, Magic Coat is largely prediction based, and there are more reliable options for preventing status. Charge Beam can be used to boost Cresselia's Special Attack as well, but Calm Mind makes much better use of its bulk. Lunar Dance is an option on just about any set, although it works best on the dual screens set, when Cresselia's survival is unimportant.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Escavalier is the bane of Cresselia's existence. Its typing and above average bulk allow it to shrug off any of Cresselia's attacks with ease, it is unaffected by Toxic, and it doesn't particularly mind Thunder Wave. It can, however, send Cresselia running (floating?) for the hills by virtue of its STAB Megahorn. Similarly, Heracross can also demolish Cresselia with Megahorn, but it must watch out for Psychic itself. Dark-types are immune to Psychic and either smother the lunar being with a powerful STAB move, or strike down a fleeing Cresselia with Pursuit; Weavile, Bisharp, and Houndoom can all send Cresselia running home crying, but the most effective of them all is Spiritomb, who is immune to Hidden Power Fighting as well as Psychic. Speaking of Spiritomb, Ghost-types, such as Chandelure and Mismagius, can also take out Cresselia with a boosted Shadow Ball.</p>

<p>At the end of the day, though, Cresselia's defensive stats are unmatched, so it is better to not try brute forcing your way through it. Taunt users can throw a wrench into Cresselia's plans, shutting down not only its means of recovery, but its ability to status dangerous threats as well. Cresselia is excruciatingly difficult to break through with unboosted attacks, but "unboosted" is the key word, and Cresselia just screams set-up bait for the likes of ChestoRest Kingdra and Snorlax. Sand also greatly hinders Cresselia's longevity, as it not only cancels out the Leftovers recovery, but also reduces Moonlight's effectiveness. Finally, Cresselia can be overwhelmed by constant offensive pressure, this is especially true under sand. If Her Lunar Majesty is not given an opportunity to heal, she will inevitably fall to a flurry of powerful attacks.</p>