[Overview]

<p>Pokemon that have access to multiple entry hazards and can reliably set them up are hard to find once you leave the boundaries of OU. Meet Crustle, one of two Pokemon that can lay both Spikes and Stealth Rock reliably, the other being Omastar, thanks to its ability, Sturdy. Crustle is very beneficial to offensive teams due to the hard pressure it applies to the opponent, further compelling him or her to switch out often and take additional entry hazard damage in the process. Behind Crustle lies solid Attack and Defensce stats, a pair of decent offensive STABs, and Shell Smash. However, the rest of Crustle's stats are paltry, preventing it from sweeping with Shell Smash, and outside of Stealth Rock, Spikes, and Toxic, it has a poor supporting movepool. Despite this, Crustle is a reliable hazard setter that should always be considered when building offensively natured teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Custap Lead
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Spikes
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: X-Scissor / Toxic
item: Custap Berry
ability: Sturdy
nature: Lonely
evs: 252 Atk / 252 Spe
ivs: 0 HP / 0 Def / 0 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As a hazard setter, Crustle's main job is to get as many hazards up as possible before fainting. Stealth Rock is Crustle's main go-to hazard, breaking Focus Sashes and making ally sweeps easier. Spikes performs a similar role, and thanks to Sturdy and the Custap Berry, Crustle is guaranteed at least a layer alongside Stealth Rock. Stone Edge, despite shaky accuracy, functions as Crustle's main STAB attack, OHKOing Crobat, Xatu, Zapdos, and other opposing Pokemon that happen to have a weakness to Rock-type attacks. X-Scissor provides a secondary STAB and is exceptionally useful against Azelf and other Psychic-type leads trying to prevent Crustle from laying hazards via Taunt or Magic Bounce. However, Toxic can be used over X-Scissor to provide further team support, helping break down opposing tanks and walls.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Although it might seem counterproductive to run a lead set with its defenses brought to their lowest level, the strategy behind Crustle encourages it. When using a Lonely nature alongside the provided EV and IV investments, Crustle's attacking prowess is maximized while keeping its defenses as low as possible in hopes of activating Sturdy and its Custap Berry. Counter can be used in the fourth slot over both X-Scissor and Toxic, as it pairs exceptionally well with Sturdy and allows Crustle to knock out an opponent before getting an additional layer of hazards up. Because Crustle is a suicide lead, a spinblocker is a must, with Cofagrigus and Sableye being the most reliable. Pokemon that appreciate having multiple entry hazards to break down threats, such as Darmanitan, Sharpedo, and Mienshao, make for excellent teammates, as their own offensive presence and power will force switches and break down opposing walls, allowing for themselves or a teammate to begin a sweep.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Knock Off is a viable choice in the fourth moveslot, as it strips the opponent of its item, potentially allowing a teammate to either outspeed or break through said opponent. Rock Blast can be used over Stone Edge, as its ability to hit the target multiple times allows Crustle to bypass Focus Sash users such as Yanmega and Venomoth. Shell Smash might seem like a good idea, as many opponents will expect Crustle to run the Custap lead set, but due to its poor Speed, Crustle is still outsped by many common Choice Scarf users after a boost, preventing any major damage to the opposing team. Crustle also has access to Curse, which unlike Shell Smash, is not hindered by its low Speed stat. However, Crustle is also plagued by a rather disappointing Special Defense stat and a killer weakness to Water-type attacks, preventing such a set from being of any major use.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taunt users, such as Sableye, Tornadus, Crobat, Azelf, and Mew, are all capable of preventing Crustle from laying hazards. However, the last four need to be wary of Stone Edge and X-Scissor, as one of the two can do severe damage to each of them. Sableye, however, also has the added bonus of access to Will-O-Wisp, making it a complete stop to opposing Crustle. Qwilfish also falls into this category, as it doesn't fear a Stone Edge thanks to Intimidate and can proceed to set hazards on Crustle's side of the field. Blastoise and Hitmontop, thanks to their typing and bulk, are able to spin away any hazards laid by Crustle and not have to worry about paying dearly for it, with Toxic being the worst of their worries. Any Water-type Pokemon has an immediate advantage over Crustle, exploiting one of its three weaknesses. Pokemon that commonly run Scald, such as Swampert, Suicune, Slowbro, and Empoleon, can all beat Crustle one-on-one, as they can target its weaker Special Defense. The added chance for a burn also hurts Crustle dearly, as this potentially prevents it from getting a second layer of hazards up. Offensive Steel-types, especially Cobalion and Empoleon, can also use Crustle as setup bait, as they resist its STAB attacks and do not fear Toxic. As a last resort, once Sturdy has been activated, all priority users, including Azumarill, Arcanine, and Honchkrow, are able to pick Crustle off.</p>