[Overview] 

<p>Drapion is certainly an odd Pokemon. With 70 / 110 / 75 defenses, Drapion is pretty bulky, especially since it only has one weakness. With a movepool that consists of Toxic Spikes, Taunt, and Whirlwind, Drapion can be a great supporter for a team. Offensive sets are also viable, as it has good base 90 Attack and base 95 Speed stats, as well as Swords Dance to become a powerful sweeper. However, Drapion has its faults. First of all, with no reliable recovery, Drapion cannot tank the onslaughts in the UU metagame for long. In addition, with Sableye and its priority Will-O-Wisp roaming the tier, Drapion is prone to status. Nevertheless, with all the benefits Drapion can bring, it should always be considered when making a team.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Toxic Spikes
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Crunch
move 4: Whirlwind
item: Leftovers
ability: Battle Armor
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With above-average defenses and just one weakness, Drapion can pull off a supportive set quite well. Drapion can easily set up a layer of Toxic Spikes before switching out, which can break apart offensive teams or wear down stall teams. With Taunt, Drapion can stop opponents, especially Bronzong and Hippopotas, from setting up hazards. Whirlwind helps phaze opponents or spread poison after Toxic Spikes are laid. Finally, Crunch prevents Drapion from becoming Taunt bait in addition to hitting Roserade hard, should it come in to absorb Toxic Spikes.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With a Careful nature and maximum Special Defense, Drapion becomes a special tank, able to take many attacks that are not super effective. Alternatively, an EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD with a Imprish nature can be used to maximize Drapion's Defense instead. Another choice is to run an EV spread of 252 HP / 4 SpD / 252 Spe with a Jolly nature; this can be used so Drapion outspeeds faster threats, such as Spikes Roserade, allowing it to Taunt Roserade before more hazards are set up. This also makes Drapion a fast Toxic Spikes user, which is very useful in setting up hazards before being Taunted, or using Taunt on defensive Pokemon becfore they can set up. It also has the benefit of going first with Whirlwind, ifit faces another phazer. <space>Knock Off can be useful to get rid of items as opposing Pokemon switch into Drapion. Rest is also nice to use if your team includes a cleric, such as Miltank or Shaymin. However, as this can be very risky, Wish support is another way to keep Drapion's health up. Earthquake can also be viable on this set, though it won't do much outside of hitting Fire-types, such as Arcanine, harder.</p>

<p>Togekiss makes a great partner, as it can switch into Ground-type attacks with impunity and obliterate Steel-types with Fire Blast. Hitmontop is a problem for this set, as it has Intimidate, as well as Rapid Spin to remove hazards, so having a Mew to beat Hitmontop is useful. Furthermore, a spinblocker such as Dusclops or Mismagius works well with Drapion, as it allows Drapion to keep the hazards it sets up. Also, both Dusclops and Mismagius can use Will-O-Wisp to weaken the opponent's Pokemon,allowing Drapion to take even more hits.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Pursuit
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Aqua Tail
move 4: Crunch / Toxic Spikes
item: Life Orb / Choice Band
nature: Jolly
ability: Sniper
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With decent offensive stats, Drapion can pull off an attacking set to great effect. Pursuit is the main reason for an offensive Drapion, as it can nail Pokemon such as Mew for good damage as they switch out. Earthquake hits Steel-type Pokemon, such as Bisharp and Empoleon super effectively, while Aqua Tail hits Ground-type and Fire-type Pokemon, such as Rotom-H and Nidoking. Finally, the last slot depends on what the team needs Drapion to accomplish. Crunch gives Drapion a solid STAB attack, which means it doesn't have to rely on Pursuit for STAB; however, Drapion can get at least one layer of Toxic Spikes before being forced to switch out, which is useful for breaking teams down—it also facilitates its teammates' sweeps. It can also be used to fake a defensive set, which might result in a surprise KO.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Sniper is the preferred ability for offensive Drapion, as the increased critical hit ratio is useful when trying to sweep a team. Also, to ensure that a Drapion sweep is easier to accomplish, Attack and Speed are maximized to deal as much damage as possible. The choice of item should depend on the team. Choice Band is useful as it provides a greater power boost than Life Orb does, making it a great stallbreaker. However, Life Orb allows Drapion to switch moves, which works well on more offensive teams that try to hit the opponent as fast as possible. Taunt can be used on the Life Orb set to prevent opponents from inflicting status on Drapion, making a sweep easier.</p>

<p>Both Drapion variants need support. Entry hazards help soften up the opposing team, making it easier for Drapion to nab KOs. Pokemon with Heal Bell or Aromatherapy, such as Clefable and Lanturn, are a must for Drapion as well, as they can cure Drapion of status inflicted by Pokemon such as Prankster Sableye. Hitmontop can be problematic too, as it has Intimidate to cut Drapion's Attack, as well as Rapid Spin to remove hazards. As such, a Mew to beat Hitmontop is useful. Milotic and Tangrowth are problems for this set.; therefore, Shaymin and Roserade are great partners, as they can check Milotic, and Roserade has STAB Sludge Bomb to beat Tangrowth. Pokemon such as Suicune and Azumarill, who check Ground-type Pokemon are also helpful. Fire-type Pokemon such as Rotom-H also work well with Drapion, as they destroy Steel-type Pokemon that give Drapion trouble.

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Crunch
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Aqua Tail / Taunt
item: Life Orb
nature: Jolly
ability: Sniper
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With great offensive capabilities, Drapion can also pull off a Swords Dance set very efficiently. After a Swords Dance, Drapion hits 558 Attack, which is enough power to pull off a sweep. Crunch is a reliable STAB attack that has great coverage in the UU metagame, hitting the many Psychic-type and Ghost-type Pokemon in the tier super effectively. Earthquake has great coverage along with Crunch, as it eliminates the Steel-type Pokemon that resist Crunch, such as Bisharp. The last moveslot is up to what Drapion needs to accomplish. Aqua Tail hits Ground-type Pokemon such as Krookodile and Rhyperior hard, which is crucial as both of these Pokemon can OHKO Drapion. However, Taunt can stop opposing Pokemon, such as Bronzong, from setting up on Drapion while avoiding status, which makes its sweep easier.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Like the physical attacker set, Sniper is the preferred ability for Swords Dance Drapion, as the increased critical hit ratio is useful when trying to sweep a team. Again, Attack and Speed are maximized so Drapion can deal as much damage as possible. After a Swords Dance, Life Orb increases Drapion's damage output, which is useful when Drapion attempts a sweep.</p>

<p>Drapion becomes a great sweeper after a Swords Dance; however, it still needs support to make a sweep easier. A way to get rid of opposing Ground-type Pokemon, such as Flygon and Choice Scarf Krookodile, greatly benefits Drapion. As such, Suicune, Azumarill, Shaymin, and Roserade, all make good teammates. Roserade, in particular, can set up Spikes to soften up the opponent's team. Speaking of entry hazards, Pokemon that can set up Stealth Rock also make great partners for Swords Dance Drapion. Bronzong is a great example, as it is immune to Ground-type attacks, and can set up Stealth Rock with relative ease. Fire-type Pokemon, such as Rotom-H, work well with Drapion too, as their STAB moves incinerate Steel-type Pokemon that give Drapion trouble. Again, clerics such as Clefable or Lanturn are necessary, as they can heal Drapion of status. Alternatively, a Pokemon with Guts, such as Heracross, or a RestTalk user, such as Dusclops, can come in and absorb status thrown in Drapion's direction; Heracross gets a special mention, as it can use the Guts boost to heavily damage the opponent, especially since Prankster Sabelye is very annoying to Drapion. Hitmontop also a problem, so having a Psychic-type Pokemon such as Mew to check it is also a great teammate to have.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Drapion doesn't get many other viable options aside from those already listed. Poison Jab and Cross Poison are two Poison-type STAB attacks Drapion can use; however, Poison has very poor offensive coverage, and it doesn't help beat anything that Drapion's other attacks can't. Scope Lens can be used to abuse Sniper; this also makes Night Slash a viable alternative over Crunch. However, relying on critical hits isn't exactly a reliable tactic. Acupressure can be used to raise a random stat by two stages, but Swords Dance is more reliable as it always raises Drapion's Attack. Air Balloon can be used to help remedy Drapion's lone weakness to Ground, but once it's popped, Drapion will be left without an item for the rest of the match. A Sleep Talk set can be used, especially since Drapion has no reliable way to heal itself, but Drapion isn't bulky enough to pull it off. Finally, a Choice Scarf can be used to turn Drapion into a revenge killer, but base 90 Attack generally isn't powerful enough.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Drapion has quite a few checks and counters it must usually run from. Ground-type Pokemon—especially Krookodile, who resists Drapion's Dark-type STAB—can easily OHKO Drapion with their STAB Ground-type attacks. However, Ground-type Pokemon should take caution when switching into offensive Drapion, as the right coverage move can deal a lot of damage to them. Steelix takes little damage even from Earthquake, and can either phaze Drapion out with Dragon Tail or Roar or directly attack it with Earthquake. Rhyperior fears Aqua Tail, but can OHKO Drapion with Earthquake. Sableye can use Taunt to break down the defensive set or Will-O-Wisp to shut down offensive ones. Weezing and Spiritomb both take little damage from Drapion's attacks and can use Will-O-Wisp to burn Drapion; however, they must be wary of Taunt. Hitmontop can use Rapid Spin to clear any hazards Drapion sets up, and has Intimidate to lower Drapion's Attack. Finally, Bronzong takes little damage from any attack, and can attack Drapion with either Earthquake or STAB Gyro Ball.</p>