[Overview]

<p>Drifblim is very peculiar Pokemon. At first glance, he may appear to be a unique and incredible Pokemon with multiple options to choose from. This stems mostly from Drifblim's colossal base 150 HP stat, decent Speed and offensive stats, and vast movepool. However, any presumptions made about Drifblim in that respect are unfortunately false. While he does possess a sizable support movepool, he's largely outclassed by his Ghost-type brethren because he does not have reliable recovery or good defenses. With a crippling weakness to Stealth Rock, Drifblim will also be hard-pressed to find a chance to switch in. In terms of being played as an offensive Ghost-type, Drifblim faces fierce competition from Mismagius, which has much higher Speed and Special Attack stats as well as Nasty Plot. All is not lost for Drifblim, though, as he does have a few tricks up his sleeve. With access to Calm Mind, Will-O-Wisp, Baton Pass, a great ability in Unburden, and workable bulk and Speed, Drifblim can be a very good Pokemon if played correctly.</p>

[SET]
name: AcroBlimp
move 1: Acrobatics
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Destiny Bond
move 4: Will-O-Wisp
item: Flying Gem
ability: Unburden
nature: Adamant
evs: 200 Atk / 104 Def / 204 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As the popularity of Spikes-stacking in UU continues to increase, the need for spinblockers rises accordingly. Drifblim serves a unique purpose among its Ghost-type counterparts: preventing Foresight Hitmontop from using Rapid Spin. Most opponents attempt to remove entry hazards as quickly as possible—a tendency you can use to your advantage. After your Roserade sets up Spikes or Toxic Spikes, the opponent will likely send in Hitmontop to use Rapid Spin. Drifblim can switch into Rapid Spin directly, nullifying the opponent's attempt to remove Stealth Rock and Spikes from the field, or it can switch into Foresight. Desperate to use Rapid Spin and unaware of Drifblim's offensive capabilities, many opponents will use Rapid Spin the turn after using Foresight, expecting it to be successful due to Foresight's effect; to their dismay, Drifblim outspeeds and OHKOes their defensive Hitmontop with Flying Gem-boosted Acrobatics. Drifblim performs similarly well against other spinners such as Claydol and Foresight-less Blastoise; however, Drifblim cannot spinblock against a healthy Foresight Blastoise due to his inability to OHKO with Flying Gem-boosted Acrobatics.</p>

<p>Surprisingly, Drifblim functions equally well as an offensive Pokemon. Acrobatics is deceptively strong—it OHKOes frailer foes such as Houndoom and 2HKOes bulkier offensive Pokemon such as Flygon and Kingdra. Because Acrobatics is Drifblim's only attack, Steel-types pose a significant threat to this set's effectiveness; however, Drifblim can take many of them down through proper use of Substitute and Will-O-Wisp. After burn's Attack cut, Drifblim's Substitutes withstand Bronzong's Gyro Ball and Registeel's Ice Punch; accompanied by burn damage, Acrobatics KOes Bronzong and Registeel before they can KO in return. Be especially wary of Empoleon and Magneton: Empoleon forces Drifblim out of play with Roar and Magneton forces Drifblim to switch or use Destiny Bond. In addition to maiming Steel-types, Will-O-Wisp slices through offensive Pokemon and increases the likelihood of Drifblim surviving an attack with a Substitute intact. Outside of providing protection against Steel-types, stalling for burn damage, and dodging Sucker Punch, Substitute blocks Toxic from defensive Gligar, Sleep Powder from defensive Roserade, and Night Shade from Dusclops. After using Substitute against one of these Pokemon, Drifblim can either burn them with Will-O-Wisp or KO them with Acrobatics, activating Unburden. With Unburden's Speed boost, Drifblim can deal significant damage to subsequent Pokemon with Acrobatics or Destiny Bond. Destiny Bond takes out slower revenge killers as well as Pokemon that wall this set such as Zapdos and Empoleon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With the designated Attack EVs, Flying Gem-boosted Acrobatics deals a minimum of 100% damage to defensive Hitmontop. Coincidentally, the Attack EVs guarantee 2HKOs against offensive Flygon and offensive Kingdra after Stealth Rock. The given Speed EVs allow Drifblim to outspeed Jolly Choice Scarf Flygon and Jolly Choice Scarf Victini, two common revenge killers, after Unburden's Speed boost. The remaining 104 EVs go into Defense, giving Drifblim's Substitutes a better chance of surviving a burned RestTalk Snorlax's Crunch. The Defense EVs are also helpful for switching into U-turn, taking Heracross's Megahorn, and surviving weak priority attacks. There are only two other viable alternatives for the last moveslot: Baton Pass and Hypnosis. With Baton Pass, Drifblim is capable of passing large Substitutes to its teammates. Hypnosis nets Drifblim one or two free turns in which it can set up a Substitute or KO the opposing Pokemon; however its accuracy prevents it from being a primary option.</p>

<p>As this set's purpose is to prevent the opponent from using Rapid Spin, you should pair Drifblim with a Stealth Rock user or Spikes Roserade. Offensive teams and defensive teams benefit equally from Drifblim's ability to spinblock; offensive teams appreciate the extra kick afforded to their attacks by Spikes and Stealth Rock, and defensive teams appreciate the passive damage caused by the opponent's constant switching. Drifblim does not require specific defensive partners; simply pair Drifblim with Pokemon, such as Cobalion and Registeel, that resist its weaknesses.</p>

[SET]
name: ChestoRest
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Rest
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Thunderbolt / Baton Pass / Hidden Power Fighting
item: Chesto Berry
ability: Unburden
nature: Modest
EVs: 252 Def / 108 SpA / 148 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The idea here is to stack up as many Calm Mind boosts as possible and use Rest once Drifblim takes a considerable amount of damage. This will cause Drifblim to use up his Chesto Berry and activate Unburden, doubling his Speed and giving him a very good shot at sweeping. Shadow Ball is Drifblim's most reliable STAB attack and is fairly easy to complement in coverage due to it having only two resistances and one immunity. In regards to coverage, Thunderbolt is the best option in the last slot, as it lets Drifblim hit bulky Water-types such as Empoleon and Suicune (which can Calm Mind alongside Drifblim) for heavy damage and Dark-, Steel-, and Normal-types for at least neutral damage.</p>

<p>This set is best left to sweeping later in the game, but running a support option in the fourth slot is also viable. If one decides to forgo coverage for utility, then Baton Pass is highly recommended not only for its greater reliability than other support options but also for its effectiveness in passing the Calm Mind boosts that Drifblim amasses.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>With the given EV spread, Drifblim will outpace +1 Speed Yanmega and Sharpedo once Unburden is activated. This is very important, as it significantly reduces the chance that either Pokemon will be able to revenge kill Drifblim if they carry Protect. Unfortunately, Drifblim with Hidden Power Fighting will never outpace Choice Scarf Krookodile as said Hidden Power requires an imperfect Speed IV. Drifblim's high base HP makes investment into said stat almost unnoticeable, so more focus is placed on Drifblim's Defense. Because Drifblim is running Calm Mind, his Defense stat is maxed out to complement the Special Defense boosts. The remaining EVs are delegated to Drifblim's Special Attack for much needed power; with 267 Special Attack and a Modest nature, Drifblim can 3HKO Suicune with an unboosted Thunderbolt and OHKO Victini with Shadow Ball after a single boost. Drifblim has a plethora of options to choose from, but only a few are usable on this set. Hidden Power Fighting partners up with Shadow Ball well in terms of coverage, making it a solid option. However, keep in mind that Porygon2 and Snorlax can still wall Drifblim. Will-O-Wisp is also usable because it works in tandem with Calm Mind, allowing Drifblim to tank hits from both physical and special attackers; however, keep in mind that Will-O-Wisp will not help with threats such as Snorlax, which can Rest away the burn and Whirlwind Drifblim; Houndoom, which is immune to burn; and most importantly, Heracross, which receives a deadly Attack boost from the burn due to Guts. Drifblim's movepool is without a doubt large, but because of how this set functions, there aren't many extremely helpful moves to choose from, so keep this in mind if one is considering any alterations.</p>

<p>Like any dedicated special attacker not running Psyshock, this set has problems with special walls, sponges, and tanks such as Porygon2, Snorlax, and Registeel. Drifblim's typing is a double-edged sword, granting him an immunity to Ground-, Normal-, and Fighting-type attacks but leaving him with a Stealth Rock weakness. To remedy this problem, Hitmontop can be used as Drifblim's partner. While there isn't much type synergy between the two, Hitmontop complements Drifblim well by spinning away entry hazards and scaring away most of the Pokemon that can outright wall Drifblim. Nidoqueen is also a fairly good choice for a teammate because she has access to Toxic Spikes and decent synergy with Drifblim. Nidoqueen is an even better partner if Drifblim is running Baton Pass in the final slot. With a special movepool comprised of powerful attacks that are almost all boosted by her ability, Sheer Force, Nidoqueen can punch holes in opposing teams with a few Special Attack boosts, greatly lightening the load for Drifblim. Similarly, Cobalion can switch into Porygon2, Snorlax, and Registeel, fearing only the occasional status attack or Earthquake from the last two (which is unlikely to be used on Drifblim); it can then proceed to set up a Swords Dance, and break down walls that would otherwise give Drifblim problems. In return, Drifblim can set up on the Pokemon that give Cobalion troubles, namely Dusclops and Slowbro.</p>

<p>This set should be played defensively early in the game and more aggressively as the game progresses; keep this in mind at all times. There are many Pokemon that don't mind switching into Drifblim and scaring him away. Drifblim certainly isn't the strongest Pokemon either, so one should be more focused on weakening his threats, giving him a much better shot at sweeping. Pokemon with super effective moves such as Weavile and Raikou can be worn down with entry hazards and unboosted attacks, respectively; bulkier threats such as Snorlax and Eviolite Ferroseed must be slowly worn down over time or lured into an unexpected KO. Regardless of how bulky a threat to Drifblim is, it must be weakened over the course of the game so Drifblim has enough breathing room to stack up a few Calm Minds and sweep.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>While Drifblim has a respectable movepool, he is the perfect example of a jack of all trades, master of none. Drifblim is a very fun pivot in Baton Pass chains due to his very large Substitutes and access to both Stockpile and Calm Mind. This means that the potential Baton Pass recipient will have an incredibly bulky Substitute to hide behind. Disable can be used in tandem with Substitute and Baton Pass, as a lot of Pokemon in the UU tier only possess one attack that can break Drifblim's Substitutes, giving him an unique niche on Baton Pass teams. Outside of such teams, however, Drifblim is outclassed by other Baton Pass users in UU.</p>

<p>A weather support set is possible and can work very well with Drifblim's movepool, but such a set is a bit underwhelming when compared to other weather starters. Of course, being a Ghost-type, Drifblim has access to the always annoying double status strategy, which can be effective if played correctly; however, Drifblim has much better things to do than spread status around. Pain Split can be used in order to give Drifblim a semi-reliable method of healing himself, but due to his high base HP stat, Drifblim won't be able to make much use out of Pain Split unless he's extremely low on health. A more committed support set is definitely possible with Drifblim's movepool, but he faces fierce competition from Cofagrigus and Dusclops, which boast better defensive capabilities and methods of healing.</p> 

<p>Drifblim's offensive movepool is large enough that a Charge Beam or even non-boosting set is possible, but Calm Mind is generally better due to Drifblim's more defensive nature. A purely offensive set would also be outclassed by Mismagius, which has access to Nasty Plot. Hidden Power Flying and Recycle are other possible options for the ChestoRest set for extra STAB coverage and virtually infinite instant recovery, respectively. However, both are situational and don't hold as much use as the recommended and additional options already mentioned.</p>

<p>Drifblim's Dream World ability, Flare Boost, boosts his Special Attack stat by 1.5 when he is burned. However while Flare Boost is unique to Drifblim, it's not even close to holding more use than Unburden or even Aftermath. This is because Drifblim will be losing HP every turn without a reliable method of healing himself, making him an inferior Mismagius.</p> 

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Drifblim's checks and counters are very straightforward: Dark-types and special sponges.</p>

<p>Porygon2, Snorlax, and Registeel have no problems switching into Drifblim, walling and either outstalling or setting up on him. Suicune and Spiritomb can Calm Mind alongside Drifblim and will quickly stall out his PP with Pressure. However, neither Pokemon can directly switch into Drifblim and defeat him, requiring either Roar or very good luck with Sleep Talk. Umbreon can come in effortlessly and accumulate many Curse boosts. Without Baton Pass, Drifblim exposes himself to the threat of Pursuit users such as Escavalier and Heracross, making them excellent checks as well. Bisharp doesn't mind switching into a Thunderbolt or Calm Mind, setting up a Swords Dance or two and mauling Drifblim with one of its extremely powerful Sucker Punches or Pursuits. Krookodile doesn't mind switching into Drifblim either and not only outpaces him but also traps him with Pursuit. Mandibuzz can switch into everything Drifblim can toss out, barring a boosted Thunderbolt, and phaze him with Whirlwind. Forcing Drifblim to use his Chesto Berry early will undoubtedly make him much easier to counter, so one should keep this in mind if he ever shows up.</p>