[Overview]

<p>Of all the revenge killers in UU, perhaps Dugtrio stands alone as best. Its ability, Arena Trap, allows it to nab any threat that is on the ground and doesn't carry precautionary measures against it. Dugtrio also boasts a blazing fast 120 base Speed stat, allowing it to get the jump on the majority of UU. Combine that with a decent offensive movepool and base 80 Attack, and Dugtrio can easily revenge kill some of the most dangerous Pokemon in UU, such as Victini, Raikou, and Cobalion.</p>
 
<p>If there was anything Dugtrio could want, it would probably be a higher base Attack. As it stands, Dugtrio has a hard time revenge killing just about any Pokemon that isn't frail physically or weak to its attacks. It has a hard time taking out most dedicated walls, which can easily take out Dugtrio due to its frailty. Dugtrio also has to be wary of priority, which bypasses its excellent Speed stat and hits it hard. Despite these downfalls, Dugtrio is amazing at what it does, and should always be considered when in need of a revenge killer.</p>

[SET]
name: Revenge Killer
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Stone Edge
move 3: Sucker Punch
move 4: Night Slash / Substitute 
item: Choice Band / Life Orb 
ability: Arena Trap
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>Thanks to its Arena Trap ability, Dugtrio makes a trapper that's near impossible to stop. It's able to get rid of almost any opponent that would otherwise get in the way of a teammate thanks to its lightning fast Speed, decent Attack, and sufficient movepool. Earthquake and Stone Edge are the main moves on this set, providing excellent neutral coverage on most of UU. From there onward, the moves can be chosen as you see fit, depending on your team. Sucker Punch is the recommended option in the third slot to hit anything which would attack Dugtrio hard, having a chance to OHKO frail Psychic-types such as Azelf and Alakazam with some prior damage. In the final moveslot, Night Slash is a decent option, letting it hit Pokemon that avoid Sucker Punch. Substitute is also an option if you have trapped something that can't harm you, but keep in mind that Life Orb should be used so that you can use moves besides Substitute. Substitute also allows you to stop opposing users of Sucker Punch from harming you, especially if you predict correctly.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>A Choice Band is the recommended item, as it gives Dugtrio as much power as possible, considering its Attack stat could use the boost. Being locked into an attack in this case isn't really bad either, considering that there is no need for you to switch attacks on most Pokemon you are trapping. However, if you feel like you really need to switch attacks, Life Orb can also be used, still giving a decent power boost. Life Orb also allows you to use Substitute, which can be helpful when up against users of Sucker Punch and even Pokemon locked into an Electric-type move. Running Life Orb also gives you the opportunity to run Toxic, which can help you wear down walls you may have trapped. Memento is an interesting option as well, allowing any of Dugtrio's teammates to switch in almost without worry from attacks. In terms of attacking moves, Aerial Ace is an option that allows Dugtrio to hit Fighting-types super effectively, especially Heracross. Unfortunately this usually doesn't work out too well for Dugtrio, as many Heracross will outrun Dugtrio thanks to Choice Scarf.</p>
 
<p>When using Dugtrio, remember that its base Attack leaves much to be desired, and that its astounding Speed only barely makes up for its awful defenses. With that in mind, Dugtrio is best suited for trapping Pokemon that are either very frail Pokemon or unable to do much in return. Any bulkier threats that Dugtrio can't take out by itself can be taken out by hard hitters such as Rhyperior, making it and other similar Pokemon excellent teammates for Dugtrio. Dugtrio tends to suit teams revolving around frail sweepers; it can more often than not take out many opponents that would get in the way of a teammate's sweep. Lastly, hazard support is an excellent idea when using Dugtrio, giving the opponent some prior damage to soften them up for Dugtrio and its teammates.</p>
 
[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Sucker Punch
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Stone Edge
item: Focus Sash
ability: Arena Trap
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>While Dugtrio is usually seen in a very offensive role, Dugtrio can also use its Arena Trap ability to support its teammates by setting up Stealth Rock almost without fail. Stealth Rock is the most important move on this set, allowing Dugtrio to support its teammates by racking up residual damage, giving your team a slightly easier time taking out the opponent. Sucker Punch gives Dugtrio a semi-reliable form of priority, which can be helpful for dishing outsome last-minute damage after Dugtrio's Focus Sash is spent. Earthquake is Dugtrio's STAB move and still hits fairly hard even without a boost, while Stone Edge in conjunction with Earthquake provides excellent neutral coverage on most foes. Focus Sash allows Dugtrio to almost always set up Stealth Rock on the foe, even in the face of a potential OHKO.<p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>A Jolly nature and maximum investment in Speed allows Dugtrio to, at worst, Speed tie with other base 120s, and allows Dugtrio to outspeed everything under that as well. This allows Dugtrio to lay down Stealth Rock as fast as possible, while full investment in Attack gives it a decent amount of power. Good teammates for Dugtrio should be able to take advantage of Dugtrio's ability to set up Stealth Rock; offensive teams tend to work the best in this regard, as Dugtrio not only fits the style of play but also gives them momentum from the start. Spinblockers are also really nice to have on your team so you won't lose Stealth Rock and be one Pokemon down for no reason; Ghost-types that can use Dugtrio's hazards to their advantage, such as Mismagius and Golurk, are excellent in this regard. Users of Spikes are also a nice addition to a team with Dugtrio, to make the opponent take even more passive damage.</p>
 
<p>An interesting idea is to run Substitute in tandem with Leftovers to give Dugtrio a bit more survivability while allowing it to scout any attacks coming in its way. However, use this at your own risk as this takes a bit of prediction to use effectively.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>On both sets, Rock Slide can be used if you fear Stone Edge's notoriously shaky accuracy will get the better of you, though keep in mind that the power drop is significant. Return is also an option if you want its excellent neutral coverage, but it's not nearly strong enough to be effective. Reversal is another interesting coverage move, but it's very risky to pull off and should only be used if you truly need the coverage it provides. Final Gambit is an option that could actually work, provided you keep Dugtrio as healthy as possible. Finally, Dugtrio has access to Hone Claws which, when played right, can be used with devastating effect. However, it is incredibly difficult to pull off, requiring perfect prediction on the user's part; it can also be useless in many matches, so be warned if you decide to use it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Dugtrio has no true counters per se, as Dugtrio will more often than not be sent in on something that it can easily take out. As a result, revenge killers are usually your best bet when taking it out. Knowing the set that Dugtrio is running can be a good start in this regard; if you know that the enemy's Dugtrio is carrying a Choice Band, you can send in something that resists the attack Dugtrio is locked into, reducing the possible damage you'll take from Dugtrio. Pokemon with super effective priority are great checks to Dugtrio, as they can easily bypass Dugtrio's blazing Speed. However, make sure that you are able to take Sucker Punch from Dugtrio.</p>
 
<p>Defensively, Slowbro takes advantage of Dugtrio quite well, either spreading status, setting up with Calm Mind, or just attacking Dugtrio outright. Claydol is in the same boat, but can also set up Stealth Rock, and use Rapid Spin to undo Dugtrio's work. However, both must watch out for a Choice Band-boosted Night Slash, Shadow Claw, or Sucker Punch. Bulky Grass-types such as Tangrowth also work since they take next to nothing from most of Dugtrio's attacks; even Choice Band Aerial Ace will often not be enough. Lastly, Gligar stands out as the greatest check to Dugtrio as it can shrug off not only attacks, thanks to its phenomenal Defense and Roost, but also Dugtrio's only possible form of offense against physical walls: Toxic.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Dugtrio recieves Sand Force from the Dream World. Though it is an interesting ability, there are many better users, and besides, Dugtrio is pretty much only used for Arena Trap.</p>