[Overview]

<p>Having received a low rank in terms of viability by community consensus, Dusclops is far too passive to be used on a standard UU team. Extremely high defenses are somewhat offset by unreliable recovery options and low HP to the point where Night Shade can KO Dusclops before his typical Rest cycle ends. However, because of his spinblocking status and somewhat niche movepool, he can be of use to stall teams where his lack of offensive presence barely hinders the team. It would also be wise to remember Dusclops's useful typing which allows him to counter the prominent Fighting-types. Before you use Dusclops, always consider other Ghosts like Sableye and Cofagrigus, both of which generally outclass Dusclops.</p>

[SET]
name: Curse
move 1: Curse
move 2: Night Shade
move 3: Will-O-Wisp
move 4: Pain Split / Rest
item: Eviolite
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Before you even think of trying this set out on your team, you should be aware that it is only even remotely effective on fully defensive teams. Curse is an almost perfect option to beat last Pokemon setup sweepers that could otherwise demolish defensive teams, namely Bulk Up Scrafty and Nasty Plot Togekiss. It is impossible to shake off the Curse damage apart from switching, which the last Pokemon cannot do, and it does too much damage for the last Pokemon to set up. Curse also works to catch Baton Pass teams which would otherwise be a problem, as they set up easily on a defensive team's passive nature. Night Shade is chosen to deal consistent damage over Seismic Toss as Dusclops can stall out Normal types anyways with Will-O-Wisp, while Night Shade allows him to beat opposing Dusclops should you invest in Speed. Will-O-Wisp is great to cripple most physical attackers&mdash;although mind the accuracy&mdash;so Dusclops and his team can more easily stall them. Pain Split adds to Dusclops's already amazing bulk, although it is not reliable at all even with low HP. It does allow him to recover quickly after a Curse should you have to use it mid-game for any reason. Rest, on the other hand, allows Dusclops to fully restore its HP and remove status. However, if he Rests, he has no chance of spinblocking against Blastoise as it can simply constantly phaze out Dusclops to reset the sleep counter and force Dusclops to quickly lose health. For those reasons Pain Split is generally preferred. Even if Dusclops is passive, this set allows him to be the tier's best defensive counter to some major threats like Flygon and Mienshao, but constant U-Turns and hazard damage will quickly take a toll on Dusclops, who is further strained from lack of Leftovers because Eviolite is necessary to raise defenses.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because Dusclops is already increasing his physical bulk with Will-O-Wisp, it is completely possible to shift some Defense EVs into Special Defense. Dusclops really wants to help out his team, so having hazard users like Roserade to punish switches that Dusclops might force is helpful, especially since Dusclops can keep those hazards on the field. Roserade can also heal Dusclops of any status with Aromatherapy, which works particularly well if Dusclops is using Rest. Also, Dusclops is one of the few spinblockers that can count itself as a wall, even if he's not a great one, so Dusclops's team doesn't particularly need to focus on physical defenders apart from perhaps one sturdy physical wall. Since Dusclops encourages the opponent to set up on him, he appreciates phazers like Snorlax who can also take strong special moves for Dusclops. Umbreon is also a good partner as he can heal Dusclops of any status including his own Rest with Heal Bell and can pass large Wishes to heal Dusclops should it not find time to use Rest, which is actually a large problem for Dusclops. A spinner such as Blastoise or Hitmontop is advised to prevent Dusclops from being repeatedly worn down by entry hazards.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Seismic Toss is usable over Night Shade should you find yourself weak to some Normal-type threats like Meloetta, although Dusclops can still wear them down with Curse and Will-O-Wisp. Hidden Power Flying can be used solely to beat Heracross and Virizion, the former which can actually otherwise beat Dusclops one-on-one with a Swords Dance Guts set. Since Heracross and Virizion are so dangerous to stall, it may be worth it, although beware of Calm Mind Virizion&mdash;it can easily sponge multiple Hidden Powers after a boost because of Dusclops's poor damage output. Shadow Ball is an option to hurt Chandelure and Mismagius switching in, but it won't OHKO either (although they cannot OHKO back either, as even Choice Specs Chandelure will not OHKO if Dusclops runs a little Special Defense). A RestTalk set can be used over Curse, but the fifth generation sleep mechanics make this a very poor idea; not to mention it makes Dusclops even more passive than he already is.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Even if you don't plan against Dusclops, your team probably has multiple ways to counter him. It's quite easy to counter Dusclops because he is very easy to set up on as burns and Curse just do not deal enough damage for Dusclops to ward off setup attackers, especially considering how unreliable Dusclops's moves are in most scenarios. Chandelure and Houndoom are among the best counters; they happily switch on Will-O-Wisp and proceed to rip apart Dusclops with boosted Fire moves or their secondary super effective STAB moves. Other Fire-types like Darmanitan and Victini can badly hurt Dusclops too while absorbing Will-O-Wisp, although Dusclops will be able to tank a few hits from them before crumpling. Most special attackers like Porygon-Z and Nidoking can easily beat Dusclops one-on-one and even set up on him. Any form of residual damage quickly forces Dusclops to Rest, which makes him all but completely dead weight, while if Dusclops tries to heal with Pain Split, some smart switches to low health Pokemon can deny Dusclops a chance to heal. If you need to spin past Dusclops, anything with Foresight like Hitmontop and Blastoise can get a spin, although not without suffering a Burn. They won't be able to KO Dusclops but they will take away most of his value by spinning. Just keep in mind two things when attempting to counter Dusclops: he will almost never be OHKOed even by super effective STAB moves, so he may be able to dish out a burn against you should you get too cocky, and he is almost always partnered with walls to cover his weaknesses.</p>