[Overview]

<p>In a tier home to many powerful Electric-types, such as Zapdos, Raikou, and Rotom-H, you would be forgiven for wondering why one would even consider using the seemingly inferior Eelektross. However, Eelektross's unique qualities, namely its colorful movepool that most Electric-type Pokemon would kill for, lack of weaknesses thanks to Levitate, and its ability to attack both physically and specially, help to differentiate it from its fellow electrical brethren. Eelektross is not without faults though, as it is painfully slow, especially for an Electric-type, and it lacks reliable recovery, which puts a real damper on its longevity and ability to take advantage of its above-average bulk. In spite of this, Eelektross has the potential to pose a real threat to any UU team. Its incredible coverage moves along with the stats to use them effectively mean that you will often be hard pressed to find a safe switch-in for it.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Flamethrower
move 3: Giga Drain / Grass Knot
move 4: Superpower / Hidden Power Ice
item: Life Orb / Expert Belt
nature: Quiet / Modest
evs: 172 HP / 252 SpA / 84 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Eelektross's biggest selling point is its nearly flawless coverage, which makes it difficult to straight up wall, and this set aims to take full advantage of that. Thunderbolt is the STAB of choice here, powering through any non-defensive Pokemon that does not resist it. Flamethrower keeps Grass-types away, while roasting Bronzong hoping to sponge Thunderbolt. Giga Drain helps to stave off the likes of Rhyperior and Golurk, netting a clean 2HKO on both while OHKOing Swampert with ease, and the additional healing it provides adds to its usefulness. However, if you feel that Rhyperior is a real thorn in your side, Grass Knot is a great alternative as it will OHKO the standard tank set 100% of the time. The final move depends on which additional Pokemon you wish to take on with Eelektross. Superpower is the recommended choice as it allows Eelektross to heavily injure Snorlax, UU's premier special wall, while also dealing good damage to Umbreon, who, like Snorlax, does not fear any of the other moves on this set. Hidden Power Ice is definitely an option though, as it is Eelektross's best shot at reasonably damaging Nidoking and Nidoqueen as well as the rare Druddigon, and it OHKOes Flygon and Gligar, both of whom can otherwise tank or wall this set respectively. Effective execution of this moveset relies on both good timing and prediction, in particular when utilizing Superpower. Avoid using Superpower recklessly&mdash;instead, try to wear down counters first, then anticipate the right moment to strike.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Life Orb is the preferred item as it suits the offensive nature of the set, providing useful boosts on neutral hits. Expert Belt allows for somewhat more longevity, but outside of super effective hits, the power is rather lackluster. The listed EVs are geared to maximize offense, while investing a little in bulk to improve Eelektross's ability to take hits and giving enough Speed to outrun defensive base 60 Speed Pokemon when running a Modest nature. Sets with Superpower should be run with a Quiet nature. Mild is an option if the Speed drop of Quiet is unfavorable, allowing Eelektross to outspeed defensive Pokemon such as Empoleon, Swampert, and Porygon2. While the Speed to outpace and strike Porygon2 with a Superpower first is appealing, the reduced Defense that comes with a Mild nature is a hindrance to an otherwise naturally bulky Pokemon such as Eelektross, and Porygon2 can still potentially beat Eelektross with good prediction. Eelektross suffers in the Speed department, so paralysis support is useful in turning it into an even bigger threat. Good inducers of paralysis and teammates for Eelektross include Togekiss and Slowbro. Togekiss can administer paralysis via Thunder Wave or Body Slam. Togekiss tends to struggle with Steel-types, which Eelektross can hit hard with a timely Flamethrower. Slowbro, on the other hand, can tank most physical attacks aimed at Eelektross while dishing out Thunder Waves when the opportunity arises. Slowbro can also set up Trick Room to support Eelektross on teams based around that strategy. As with most offensive Pokemon, Eelektross very much appreciates entry hazards. Qwilfish is a great teammate as it has access to Thunder Wave and Spikes, and it enjoys having Eelektross take Ground-type attacks aimed at it and maim the common Blastoise that otherwise Rapid Spins with ease on Qwilfish. Offensively, Pokemon that benefit from having special walls in pieces pair well with Eelektross. Raikou will appreciate the damage done and can use it to pave the way towards a sweep. Chandelure is another good candidate, as it desperately needs Snorlax out of the way in order to go to town, and a weakened Umbreon is always helpful for it.</p>

<p>An alternative faster spread of 4 Atk / 252 SpA / 252 Spe with a Hasty or Timid nature, depending on whether you are running Superpower or not (shift the 4 Attack EVs to Special Defense if running Timid), can be used in order to outspeed a number of key defensive walls such as Gligar and Suicune. Use only Life Orb with the faster spreads, as Expert Belt will not provide enough power. A spread of 252 HP / 252 SpA / 4 SpD with a 0 Speed IV should be used when running Eelektross on a Trick Room team.</p>

[SET]
name: Coil
move 1: Coil
move 2: ThunderPunch
move 3: Drain Punch
move 4: Dragon Tail / Aqua Tail
item: Leftovers
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 16 Atk / 240 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The users of Coil are few and far between, and even less common are those that can use the move well. Fortunately, Eelektross just so happens to be one of the best. After a few Coils, Eelektross will not only become a threat offensively, but a pain to break on the defensive side too. ThunderPunch, while disappointing in Base Power, is the key STAB move here. Wild Charge boasts more power, but its recoil runs counter to the more conservative nature of the set. Drain Punch is incredibly useful, aiding coverage and providing some much needed healing while proving useful against Pokemon such as Cobalion, Snorlax, Umbreon, and Registeel. Dragon Tail is handy in that it repels attempts to phaze Eelektross via Roar or Whirlwind while also doubling as a phazing method of your own should the need arise. Aqua Tail should not be written off, however, as it allows Eelektross to hold its own against Ground-types, such as Gligar, Rhyperior, and Claydol, while also beating Rotom-H whose auspicious typing grants it the ability to otherwise wall Eelektross with ease. Regardless of which fourth move you decide to choose, the icing on the cake is that the imperfect accuracy of both moves is patched up after just one use of Coil.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An Adamant nature and the given EVs maximize Eelektross's ability to sponge special hits as it attempts to boost its physical defenses while providing the offensive kick to start dealing serious damage after just one Coil. As this set aims to stick around for a while and accumulate boosts, Leftovers is a perfect fit. Paralysis support is always helpful for Eelektross, but what this set really dislikes is status, namely Toxic and burns, so a way to either handle or sponge status is required to get the most out of it. Togekiss is a fine teammate in this regard, being able to support with Heal Bell, while Eelektross can weather Electric-type attacks aimed at Togekiss. Umbreon can also Heal Bell, and it can also pass Eelektross Wishes to restore lost HP. Roserade and Shaymin both have access to Aromatherapy to help Eelektross out as well. Roserade gets a particularly strong mention for its ability to also provide hazards that Eelektross can take advantage of. Taking a more offensive slant, Swords Dance Heracross is a fantastic partner, absorbing status that Eelektross attracts and benefiting from it thanks to Guts. Swords Dance Heracross is also able to overcome Gligar, which this Eelektross has difficulties with, while Eelektross deals with Flying-types, such as Zapdos and Crobat, which Heracross detests. Darmanitan also teams up well offensively with Eelektross. Darmanitan's immense offensive power can be used to smash through the opposition, while Eelektross can switch in on Earthquakes thrown Darmanitan's way and can bait out and injure counters, such as Rhyperior, with a boosted Aqua Tail while using its STAB Electric-type moves to keep Water-types at bay.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Although the moves already listed are the ones that you will almost always want to be using, one of Eelektross's prides and joys is its impressive movepool, and it would be unfair not to at least highlight its other usable options. Acid Spray can be used to gain a pseudo-Nasty Plot boost or force switches. Charge Beam is Eelektross's only method of boosting its Special Attack, though it is a somewhat unreliable and very weak method of doing so. Discharge has a higher paralysis rate than Thunderbolt, but Eelektross requires all the help it can get when it comes to special attacking power, so the latter is generally a better pick. Fire Punch can be used on physical sets to have an easier time against Bronzong. Knock Off, Light Screen, and Roar are all decent support moves which Eelektross can get some mileage out of, but better Pokemon exist for the use of such moves. Super Fang breaks down sturdier walls that Eelektross struggles with, but you will be hard pressed to find a good spot for it on most movesets. U-turn and Volt Switch can be used to scout switch-ins, but Eelektross is better off attacking most of the time. Zap Cannon can work in conjunction with Coil, but it is mostly inefficient, and outside of the accuracy boost, the two moves do not synergize well. Avoid using Choice items on Eelektross, as its strengths lie in its fantastic coverage and ability to switch between moves, making it difficult to straight up wall. Lastly, if you're feeling comedic you can always give Magnet Rise a whirl; throw an Air Balloon into the mix, and Eelektross will give Rotom-S a real run for its money!</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Against the specially oriented offensive set, as long as Superpower is not present, specially defensive Pokemon such as Umbreon and Snorlax are safe bets, taking little from its attacks and retaliating with Toxic, Payback, or Foul Play in Umbreon's case or a Normal-type move of choice in Snorlax's. Porygon2 is in a similar category as these two, but its superior physical bulk means it does not even fear Superpower as much. Swampert does well against Coil sets, being able to Roar away any accumulated boosts if Eelektross lacks Dragon Tail or fish for a burn with Scald. Gligar can beat sets without Hidden Power Ice and Toxic stall Eelektross. Gligar can take on most Coil sets too, but a boosted Aqua Tail will hurt. Registeel can take pretty much anything Eelektross can throw at it, as not even Flamethrower will hurt it that much, and from there it can cripple with status and whittle away at Eelektross's HP with Seismic Toss. Offensively, Rotom-H stands out as a fine check, resisting most, if not all, of Eelektross's moves. It can roast Eelektross with its powerful STAB Overheat, or it can burn with Will-O-Wisp against Coil sets. It will have to be wary of Aqua Tail though. Flygon is another good offensive check, able to take anything Eelektross can muster save for Hidden Power Ice and retaliate with Outrage. Raikou can use specially based Eelektross as bait to start setting up Calm Minds, but will lose to Coil Eelektross if it attempts anything of the sort against it.</p>

<p>Although relatively bulky for an offensive Pokemon, Eelektross can be taken out of commission by strong attacks such as Close Combat, Seed Flare, and V-create. Eelektross lacks reliable recovery, so repeated attacks will eventually dispose of it. Toxic also helps immensely.</p>