[Overview]

<p>"It is said that when it roars, a volcano erupts somewhere around the globe." Such is the flavor text for Entei, a mighty force in the UU metagame—it sports one of the highest Attack stats in the tier. That's not all, either; tack on STAB Flare Blitz, priority in ExtremeSpeed, and a coverage move in Stone Edge, and you have got one difficult Pokemon to counter. Unfortunately, Flare Blitz and ExtremeSpeed are event moves, and Entei is forced to use an Adamant nature, which means it won't be outspeeding a lot. Aside from its physical attacking prowess, Entei has access to Calm Mind, and its high base HP means it can create 101 HP Substitutes, which are unbreakable by Seismic Toss. Besides what has been mentioned already, Entei's movepool isn't anything spectacular, but it has everything it needs to succeed in UU. Being a Fire-type, however, Entei is weak to Stealth Rock, and it can't stand up against common Water-, Rock-, and Ground-types moves, so provide it with proper support to get the most out of it.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Flare Blitz
move 2: ExtremeSpeed
move 3: Stone Edge
move 4: Hidden Power Grass / Toxic / Flame Charge
item: Choice Band / Life Orb
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>What makes Entei such an amazing physical sweeper is its high Attack stat, immunity to Will-O-Wisp, and respectable bulk. Flare Blitz is Entei's most powerful move; a 120 Base Power STAB move coming off a base Attack of 115 is going to hurt anything that doesn't resist it. ExtremeSpeed gives Entei a priority move to pick off weakened Pokemon, and it gives Entei something to smack around faster Pokemon with. Stone Edge is the main reason to use Entei over Arcanine, as it allows Entei to hit Fire- and Flying-types, namely Moltres and opposing Arcanine, super effectively. Finally, Hidden Power Grass can KO Quagsire and Omastar, Toxic can cripple the bulkier walls which Entei can't break, and Flame Charge can be used to raise Entei's Speed to outrun most of the unboosted tier.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The item choice is down to personal preference: Choice Band provides Entei with more power, while Life Orb allows it to switch between moves. The downside to using a Life Orb is that Entei already takes recoil damage from Flare Blitz, and the added Life Orb recoil means it won't survive for very long. Sleep Talk and Will-O-Wisp are two support options to use in the last slot, turning Entei into a sleep absorber, or giving it something to cripple physical attackers with, respectively. Iron Head and Bulldoze give Entei a move to hit Rock-types with, but those moves generally have poor coverage. Return is another physical option, though it's mainly a filler that provides neutral coverage. Due to Flare Blitz and ExtremeSpeed being event moves, Entei is forced to use an Adamant nature, which holds it back in the Speed department. To cover for this, a more defensive spread can be used to take hits, or a Choice Scarf can be used to outrun more threats.</p>

<p>As Flare Blitz and Life Orb will be causing so much recoil, support from Rapid Spin is needed to remove Stealth Rock. Hitmontop is a great choice, as it can use Foresight to hit Ghost-types and switch into Rock-type moves aimed at Entei. Blastoise is another good partner as it can switch into Water-type moves and has access to Scald, which has the chance to burn physical attackers, such as Golurk. Entei also appreciates entry hazards on the opponent's side of the field, which weaken Pokemon that switch in and attempt to wall it.</p>

<p>Pokemon that can switch into Entei's weaknesses, especially those that maintain offensive pressure, are helpful. For example, Empoleon can switch into Rock- and Water-type moves aimed at Entei and put pressure onto the opponent; unfortunately, it shares a Ground-type weakness with Entei. Flygon is another example of an offensive Pokemon that can switch into Rock- and Water-type moves, and it can also utilize U-turn to force switches.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Substitute
move 3: Flamethrower
move 4: Hidden Power Grass 
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 136 HP / 120 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thanks to its massive HP, respectable defenses, and access to Calm Mind, Entei is a formidable boosting sweeper in UU. What makes this set so great is Entei's ability to create 101 HP Substitutes, which means it can set up against the likes of Clefable. Furthermore, it also has the Speed to outrun most other walls. Calm Mind is not too shabby on a Pokemon with base 90 Special Attack, and combined with a powerful Fire-type STAB, Entei is quite the force to be reckoned with. Flamethrower provides Entei with a powerful STAB move, and Hidden Power Grass is used to hit Water- and Rock-types super effectively.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs on this set are fairly simple: 136 HP EVs ensure Entei can set up 101 HP Substitutes, and maximum Speed is used to tie with base 100 Speed Pokemon. The remaining EVs are placed in Special Attack, giving Entei some firepower. A more offensive set can be used without Substitute, and this allows Entei to invest more in its attacking stats. Stone Edge is viable with a Naive nature, and it provides excellent coverage with Entei's Fire-type STAB. Hidden Power Rock is another decent choice to hit opposing Fire-types, though Entei is forced to use a Speed IV of 30. Lava Plume can be used over Flamethrower for its higher burn rate, but Flamethrower's higher power is appreciated on an offensive set like this.</p>

<p>Due to Entei's typing, it needs support in the form of Rapid Spin. Sandslash is a great choice as it can remove entry hazards with Rapid Spin, set up Stealth Rock, and switch into Rock-type moves which Entei is weak to. Hitmonlee is another decent choice as it can break through Snorlax and Rock-types, and its powerful STAB moves force a lot of switches. Support from entry hazards is also helpful, especially Toxic Spikes, which help wear down Snorlax and bulky Water-types. Roserade can set up Toxic Spikes, sponge Water-type moves, and incapacitate an opponent with Sleep Powder. Claydol can set up Stealth Rock, switch into Rock-type moves, and utilize Rapid Spin to support its team. Finally, Froslass can set up Spikes, cripple an opponent with Thunder Wave, and block Rapid Spin thanks to its Ghost typing.</p>

<p>Without Hidden Power Rock or Stone Edge, Entei has trouble with Altaria and defensive Zapdos, so a teammate that can take them out is recommended. Aggron can set up Rock Polish and KO them with Head Smash, while Froslass can outspeed them and maim them with Ice Beam. Defensive walls, such as Snorlax and Cresselia, are troublesome too, so a way to break through them is helpful. A strong Fighting-type, such as Hitmonlee, can KO Snorlax, while Dark- and Bug-types, such as Krookodile, Scyther, Drapion, and Honchkrow, can take out Cresselia. Grass-types are also decent partners, as they can take out Ground-, Rock-, and Water-types; Lilligant and Roserade are fine choices.</p>

[SET]
name: Sunny Day
move 1: Sunny Day
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Fire Blast / Flamethrower
move 4: SolarBeam
item: Life Orb / Heat Rock
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The idea behind this set is pretty simple: set up Sunny Day, and proceed to pummel the opponent with boosted Fire-type moves and SolarBeam. Calm Mind is used to raise Entei's Special Attack and Special Defense, and turns it into an offensive powerhouse in the sun. The choice between Flamethrower or Fire Blast is down to personal preference; Flamethrower has more PP and higher accuracy, but Fire Blast provides extra power. SolarBeam helps provide coverage against Water-, Rock-, and Ground-types, and it doesn't need a turn to charge when the sun is active.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Life Orb provides Entei with more power right off the bat, while Heat Rock can be used to prolong the sun. Hidden Power Ice or Hidden Power Rock can be used to hit Altaria and Zapdos; however, Hidden Power Rock lowers Entei's Speed IV to 30, which means it'll lose out on the Speed tie with other base 100 Speed Pokemon. Lava Plume can be used in the third slot for a higher burn rate, though the loss in power is noticeable in the long run.</p>

<p>Teammates that can set up entry hazards are appreciated. Roserade can set up Toxic Spikes and KO Entei's counters, Claydol can set up Stealth Rock and utilize Rapid Spin, and Froslass can set up Spikes and cripple an opponent with Thunder Wave. Entei is weak to Stealth Rock, so a Pokemon that can support it with Rapid Spin is helpful. Hitmontop and Claydol are decent choices, and they both have powerful STAB moves to dent the opponent with.</p>

<p>Pokemon that can take advantage of the sun are decent partners. Exeggutor can abuse Chlorophyll and power through the opponent's team, while other Fire-types, such as Darmanitan, can blast through the opponent's team with sun-boosted STAB moves. Water-types also make great teammates, as they can remove opposing Fire-types that resist SolarBeam and Fire-type moves. Suicune and Azumarill are great choices, and they have enough bulk to switch into powerful attacks as well. Ground-types are also decent choices thanks to their STAB Earthquake; Rhyperior also has a massively powerful STAB Stone Edge.</p>

<p>Due to this set's special-attacking nature, Pokemon such as Snorlax can be troublesome. Powerful Fighting-types, such as Hitmonlee, are good choices to remove them. Grass-types, such as Shaymin and Tangrowth, can defeat the Ground-, Rock-, and Water-types that stand in Entei's way. They also have access to Leech Seed to cripple Cresselia and Snorlax, or Sleep Powder or GrassWhistle to incapacitate an opponent.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Apart from the moves listed, there isn't a lot going for Entei. Reflect can be used to support teammates, crippling physical attackers, though Will-O-Wisp is generally better as it lasts longer. Howl can be used to raise Entei's Attack, but finding a moveslot for it can be difficult. Extrasensory is an alternative to hit Fighting- and Poison-types super effectively, though it doesn't have much use outside of that. Overheat is a more hit-and-run option to score massive damage, but constant switching out requires Rapid Spin support. Shadow Ball is another option on the Calm Mind set, but it doesn't provide great coverage. Eruption can be used in tandem with a Choice Scarf; just make sure Entei hasn't taken prior damage, as Eruption's power will be reduced. Finally, Entei can utilize a mono-attacking set with Rest, Sleep Talk, Lava Plume, and Calm Mind, which turns it into a great status absorber and boosting tank.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>For the most part, Water-types can take on any set that doesn't have SolarBeam or a boosted Hidden Power Grass. Suicune can set up Calm Mind boosts while Resting off the damage, Milotic can hit Entei with STAB Surf and restore its HP with Recover, and Azumarill can break through Entei with Huge Power-boosted Waterfall and Aqua Jet. Other examples include Blastoise, Kingdra, Slowbro, and Empoleon; all of these can ruin Entei's reign and turn it into a washout with their STAB moves. Cresselia is a good all-around wall, and Thunder Wave can really screw Entei's strategy, not to mention Calm Mind Cresselia can set up alongside boosting Entei. Rhydon and Rhyperior can take on sets that lack Hidden Power Ice or Hidden Power Grass, and their STAB moves will KO Entei with little trouble. Golurk has enough bulk to survive a Flare Blitz, and can hit Entei with STAB Earthquake—just watch out for Hidden Power Ice or Grass. Arcanine, Chandelure, and Victini can beat the special sets with ease, and they must only watch out for Stone Edge on the physical ones. Umbreon and Snorlax are bulky enough to take on most sets; Umbreon can trap Entei with Mean Look, while Snorlax can use Curse to boost its Attack and Defense. Finally, Entei is weak to Stealth Rock, and a combination of residual damage  and constant switching will wear it down slowly.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Entei receives Flash Fire as its Dream Word ability. This is an excellent ability for Entei, though it's illegal with Flare Blitz and ExtremeSpeed due to them being event moves. Flash Fire can be used on the specially based sets, which don't require said event moves, however.</p>