[Overview]

<p>Escavalier's main selling points are undoubtedly its superb Attack stat and access to Pursuit and STAB Megahorn, which allow it to effortlessly punch gaping holes into enemy defenses. Additionally, its typing, which leaves it with only a single weakness, and great overall bulk make it very difficult to take down. This also gives it a ton of defensive utility as a counter to many of the metagame's most prominent threats, including Weavile, Roserade, and Mismagius, all of which it can put into a checkmate position due to its strong Pursuit. It's not all fun and games though, as Escavalier is so slow that even notoriously lazy Pokemon like Snorlax and Slowbro outpace it. On top of that, it has no coverage moves to speak of, making it complete setup fodder for threats such as Cobalion and Chandelure. However, if you know its limitations and play to its strengths, this little metallic snail is more than likely to impress you.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Megahorn
move 2: Iron Head
move 3: Pursuit
move 4: Return
item: Choice Band
ability: Swarm
nature: Adamant
evs: 248 HP / 252 Atk / 8 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Escavalier's great bulk, multiple resistances, and jaw-dropping Attack stat make it an ideal user of Choice Band. This set's purpose is twofold: first, it can tear huge holes into enemy lines simply by using Megahorn repeatedly, as even Pokemon that resist it will take huge amounts of damage. Second, Escavalier can use its strong Pursuit to trap and KO frail threats, such as Flygon, Weavile, and Mismagius. Iron Head serves as a backup STAB move for Pokemon that are hit super effectively by it or resist Megahorn, such as Rhyperior and Machamp, respectively. Return is only here because Escavalier's movepool is quite poor, but it does net a neutral hit on threats such as Arcanine and Zapdos, something neither of Escavalier's STAB moves can do.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread serves to optimize Escavalier's bulk and maximize its Attack, the remaining EVs tossed into Special Defense to prevent Download Porygon2 from receiving a beneficial boost as it comes in. You may choose to give up some bulk in order to make it faster than Snorlax and Slowbro, but Escavalier appreciates every bit of bulk it possesses, so only do this if you find it to be absolutely necessary. Swarm is the preferred ability here, as it has the potential to make the metallic snail's Megahorn virtually unstoppable, but Shell Armor's ability to protect it from critical hits is very useful as well. Unfortunately for Escavalier, its movepool is scarce, leaving it with little to play around with, despite its fourth moveslot being almost a complete filler. Double-Edge is an option, as it'll do more damage to Zapdos and Fire-types and has a wide range of neutral coverage. However, the recoil is unappealing since Escavalier relies so much on its HP to take hits. Rock Smash, despite how ridiculous it sounds, 2HKOes Cobalion 50% of the time. Knock Off also works, especially since two of its counters, Gligar and Dusclops, rely entirely on Eviolite to be effective. The use of Sleep Talk allows Escavalier to absorb Sleep inducing moves, such as Roserade's Sleep Powder. Another, less obvious option is to forego the use of Choice Band altogether in favor of giving Escavalier a means of recovering HP through Rest + Chesto Berry or even Leftovers. This works out fantastically due to its great typing, bulk, and virtually free fourth moveslot. It's also worth noting that given a Life Orb, a Brave nature, 0 Speed IVs, and possibly even Reversal, Escavalier becomes one of the most fearsome sweepers a dedicated Trick Room team can employ.</p>

<p>Since Escavalier is so susceptible to hazard damage stacking up, keeping Spikes off the field by pairing it with a Rapid Spin user will greatly increase its longevity. Blastoise does especially well here, as it will gladly come in on the Fire-type moves aimed at the metallic snail. Offensively, Choice Scarf Heracross makes a fantastic partner, as Escavalier is sure to weaken the enemy Pokemon that resist Megahorn, opening up an opportunity for a Heracross sweep later in the game. Houndoom also makes for a good offensive partner, as it not only has Flash Fire to absorb all Fire-type moves aimed at the snail, but can also Pursuit enemy Chandelure to death, leaving Escavalier with one less counter to worry about. Snorlax works in a similar manner, but it also has the added benefit of easily defeating some of Escavalier's other counters, namely Zapdos and Chandelure.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Megahorn
move 2: Iron Head
move 3: Pursuit
move 4: Toxic / Rest
item: Leftovers / Chesto Berry
nature: Careful
evs: 248 HP / 8 Atk / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While it might seem odd to let Escavalier's insane Attack stat go to waste by using a defensive set, doing so lets it check many threats that the offensive set has trouble keeping up with, such as Raikou and Kingdra. Megahorn acts as Escavalier's main form of offense, and despite the minimal Attack investment, it will still hit very hard due to its naturally high Base Power. Iron Head is the snail's secondary STAB move, letting it hit Pokemon such as Crobat, Togekiss, and Heracross. Pursuit is included here because one of Escavalier's main functions is to check various Ghost- and Psychic-types, such as Mismagius, Cofagrigus, and Flamethrower-less Azelf, and having this move usually puts them in a checkmate position. Toxic gives Escavalier a means of crippling many of its common switch-ins, such as Zapdos, Chandelure, and bulky Water-types, but has very limited use outside of that. Rest can be used over either Pursuit or Toxic, as when it is combined with Chesto Berry, it gives the metallic snail a means of recovering HP, which it otherwise cannot do outside of Leftovers.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread optimizes Escavalier's ability to take special hits from the threats it is supposed to beat. The remaining EVs get tossed into Attack in order to let Escavalier do slightly more damage to its targets. This variant of Escavalier can use either one of its abilities effectively. Swarm makes Escavalier much more dangerous when its HP dips under one-third, but Shell Armor protects it from critical hits, and we all know how a well-timed critical hit can ruin even the best plan, so it is worth considering. Knock Off deserves a special mention here, as Gligar and Duscops, two Pokemon who normally have no trouble countering Escavalier, rely entirely on their Eviolite to function well. Pokemon with the ability Flash Fire make excellent teammates to Escavalier, as they can not only switch into its only weakness for free, but also benefit from doing so. Houndoom is especially noteworthy, as it can guarantee the removal of Chandelure, one of Escavalier's most prominent counters. Blastoise is a good partner, as it can also come in on Fire-types and spin away the hazards that Escavalier dislikes.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Escavalier's incredibly barren movepool leaves it with few alternatives in terms of set variation. However, it does have access to a few noteworthy moves that it could put to good use under the right circumstances. Substitute is most noteworthy, as Escavalier's typing and bulk will often force a ton of switches, allowing it to set up quite often. Swords Dance and Reversal might seem appealing, but the fact is, Escavalier's Speed is so terrible that it will never get a chance to use them properly. Finally, Focus Blast can serve as a way of at least attempting to damage Aggron and Steelix, but is otherwise completely useless due to the snail's pathetic Special Attack.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although its huge Attack stat and STAB Megahorn might make it look quite scary, Escavalier can do massive damage if the opponent doesn't keep it in mind when building his or her team. Chandelure, Bold Zapdos, Cobalion, Gligar, Dusclops, Impish Arcanine, Steelix, and Moltres are all solid counters to any Escavalier set. Be careful of switching them in recklessly though, as some of the aforementioned Pokemon hate Toxic from the defensive set, and others lack means of recovering HP. Anything with a moderately powerful Fire-type move is a good check, including, but not limited to Darmanitan, Victini, and Nidoking. Users of Will-O-Wisp are also good checks, as Escavalier loses almost all of its utility once it is burned. If these are not options, you can always prey on its nonexistent Speed stat and use powerful moves, such as Choice Band Heracross's Close Combat, to bring it down.</p>