[Overview]

<p>Gligar has a niche as a usable physical wall in UU. With Eviolite boosting its already passable defenses, it is capable of taking even powerful neutral attacks such as Choice Scarf Victini's V-create. Furthermore, it's one of the only Pokemon that can switch safely into all of Choice Scarf Heracross's attacks. Switching into battle isn't hard for Gligar, as it's immune to both Spikes and Toxic Spikes and takes only neutral damage from Stealth Rock. It's even hard to cripple, as its Immunity ability protects it from poison. Gligar can support its team by setting up Stealth Rock and crippling opposing Pokemon with Toxic. However, the good news ends here. Gligar has pathetic offensive capabilities, and many Pokemon can use it as setup bait. It can lose momentum in a battle very easily, and give dangerous Pokemon such as Swords Dance Heracross and Nasty Plot Togekiss the chance they need to start a sweep. Gligar also has a crippling Ice-type weakness that allows Pokemon it should wall, such as Mienshao, to bypass its immense physical bulk with Hidden Power Ice. Its Water-type weakness and susceptibility to the burn status means Gligar is also plagued by Scald, a common Water-type move. Gligar has the potential to be a useful wall, but users must know how to alleviate its faults.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Roost 
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: U-turn / Toxic
move 4: Toxic / Taunt / Stealth Rock
item: Eviolite
ability: Immunity
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to use Gligar's enormous physical bulk to wall many dangerous Pokemon in the UU metagame. Roost restores 50% of Gligar's health and allows it to switch into powerful physical attacks multiple times. Earthquake is a reliable STAB move which ensure Gligar isn't complete Taunt bait. Even with Earthquake, Gligar doesn't have a powerful offensive presence, but U-turn can help alleviate this by keeping momentum on Gligar's side of the field. Toxic cripples any bulky Water-types that might try to capitalize on Gligar's Water-type weakness and low Special Defense and also limits the opponent's ability to set up by crippling potential sweepers. Almost all Pokemon that are immune to Toxic are weak to Earthquake, which can make switching into Gligar tricky. Stealth Rock supports Gligar's team by increasing passive damage on the opponents side, while Taunt prevents slower Pokemon from setting up or healing off Toxic damage.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Gligar's ability to take physical hits, which is what is does best. An alternate spread of 252 HP / 204 Def / 52 Spe allows Gligar to outspeed Choice Band Victini after a V-create and OHKO with Earthquake after Stealth Rock damage. Gligar can also use an EV spread of 252 HP / 252 SpD / 4 Spe to check Electric-types lacking Hidden Power Ice while still taking physical attacks well. Immunity is the best ability because poisoning would ruin Gligar's walling attempts. Aerial Ace can be used to OHKO Heracross after Stealth Rock damage, ensuring that Gligar can still check Swords Dance Heracross. Substitute eases prediction and allows Gligar to stall slower Pokemon with Toxic. Snorlax is a very good partner as it can take almost any special attack aimed at Gligar. Roserade also has good Special Defense and can take on any bulky Water-type that threatens Gligar. Empoleon has great synergy with Gligar. Not only does Empoleon's excellent Special Defense complement Gligar's great physical Defense, but their types cover the other's weaknesses perfectly. Empoleon can easily switch into Ice- and Water-type attacks aimed at Gligar, while Gligar can switch into Ground-, Fighting-, and Electric-type attacks aimed at Empoleon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Gligar doesn't have many other options. Knock Off can cripple opposing Pokemon by removing vital items. Gligar has access to both Rain Dance and Sunny Day, which combined with its immense bulk makes it a usable weather starter. Gligar has access to Swords Dance, Rock Polish, and Baton Pass, but that is better done by Mew.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Bulky Water-types such as Slowbro and Suicune take little from Earthquake and threaten Gligar with a super effective STAB Scald. Grass-types resist Earthquake and can deal a lot of damage to Gligar with high-powered special attacks. Shaymin shakes off Toxic with Natural Cure, while Roserade trades a Ground-type resistance for a Toxic immunity and higher Special Attack. Crobat is immune to both Earthquake and Toxic and can break Gligar's stall by inflicting damage with Brave Bird and preventing recovery with Taunt. Xatu bounces back Toxic, Taunt, and Stealth Rock and is immune to Earthquake. Porygon2 can get a Special Attack boost with Download when it switches into Gligar and OHKO it with Ice Beam, but is crippled by Toxic. Many setup sweepers, such as the previously mentioned Swords Dance Heracross and Nasty Plot Togekiss, can use Gligar to set up a sweep.</p>