[Overview]

<p>For a Pokemon that spends the majority of its life balancing on the tip of its head, Hitmontop is no pushover. This plucky little Fighting-type takes its place in UU through the combination of its bulk, Intimidate, and Rapid Spin. One of the best utility checks in the tier, Hitmontop is one of the few Pokemon that can stop Choice Scarf Heracross from sweeping through a team and still perform its other duties. However, the large number of offensive Ghost-types in UU makes it difficult for Hitmontop to use Rapid Spin if it wants to stay in one piece. Add to that the ubiquitous Flying- and Psychic-types in the tier and Hitmontop really has its work cut out for it. Hitmontop also proves itself something of a liability on more offensive teams, and cannot be haphazardly thrown onto a team despite its role as a supporting Pokemon. Despite these limitations, Hitmontop is very good at what it does.</p>

[SET]
name: Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Foresight / Toxic
move 3: Sucker Punch / Stone Edge
move 4: Close Combat 
item: Leftovers
ability: Intimidate
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Hitmontop's only real niche in UU is that of a bulky Rapid Spin user, and it performs its job admirably. Between Hitmontop's physical bulk, Intimidate, and its Fighting typing, it becomes capable of spinning against a large portion of the metagame. Foresight combines with Rapid Spin to make it impossible to stop Hitmontop from spinning unless your opponent is packing two Ghost-types. Unfortunately, if your opponent lacks a Ghost-type, it becomes a wasted moveslot instead. If you'd rather not take that risk, Toxic is available as a more passive option. It's good for wearing down the bulkier Ghost-types, such as Cofagrigus and Sableye, if you can predict the switch-in, and most of Hitmontop's checks and counters also hate being badly poisoned. Sucker Punch and Stone Edge are Hitmontop's coverage options. Sucker Punch compliments Hitmontop's STAB and is good for picking off weakened enemies, while Stone Edge gives Hitmontop a fighting chance (no pun intended) against Chandelure and Froslass. It also gives it a weapon against Flying-types, like Zapdos and Crobat, which is greatly appreciated. Close Combat rounds out the moveset as Hitmontop's most reliable STAB move; it has a good combination of high power and low risk, and the stat drops are easily mitigated both by Intimidate and timely switching.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Most of Hitmontop's other options are either outclassed or not worth considering. Aerial Ace is nice to use against Heracross and other Fighting-types that Hitmontop will often be used to check, but forfeiting the coverage of Stone Edge or the priority of Sucker Punch isn't worth it. It also seriously lacks power without the boost from Technician. Rest is decent if you have access to Heal Bell support, but otherwise it's a terrible idea that turns Hitmontop into dead weight that the remainder of your team has to compensate for; you're probably better off sticking to Wish support or choosing to forgo extra healing moves entirely. Low Kick and Revenge are more conservative Fighting-type STABs, but they are not as consistent as Close Combat in terms of damage output. On the other end of the scale, Hi Jump Kick is a much riskier STAB, but has slightly more power, although it's generally not worth it. Finally, Pursuit might seem like a good idea for picking off Foresight-stricken Ghosts-types if they attempt to switch out, but they're just as likely to attack.</p>

<p>Hitmontop is capable of acting as a solid utility check thanks to its extensive physical bulk and Intimidate. Pokemon such as Choice Scarf Heracross and Krookodile, Speed Boost Sharpedo, Flygon, Weavile, and even Swords Dance Cobalion are all examples of Pokemon that Hitmontop is capable of stopping. Hard-hitting Pokemon, such as Yanmega, Darmanitan, Weavile, and Chandelure, all enjoy the removal of entry hazards and appreciate Hitmontop's ability to block the aforementioned threats. Hitmontop itself also requires team support to function effectively. First and foremost are Dark-types, particularly those with access to Pursuit, like Honchkrow, Weavile, and Houndoom, which are capable of running down Ghost-types that would block Hitmontop's Rapid Spin and can also pick off Psychic-types, such as Mew and Azelf, which otherwise have a field day switching into Hitmontop and setting up. Houndoom in particular is worthy of note because it beats Chandelure into the ground, thus eliminating one of the Pokemon Hitmontop has the most issues with. Hitmontop also has issues with Flying-types, particularly Togekiss and Crobat. Thus, a Flying-type resist is almost mandatory; Bronzong, Bisharp, and Rhyperior are all good choices for this position. Bulky Zapdos is also a decent pick because it can pick off opposing Flying-types with STAB, super effective Electric attacks and heal off any damage with Roost. Umbreon is one of the best Hitmontop partners because in addition to sponging special attacks aimed at Hitmontop, it can easily pass Wishes to keep Hitmontop healthy and heal off nasty status from Hitmontop with Heal Bell. The two have great defensive synergy as well, making them an effective defensive core.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Sadly, Hitmontop is very limited in terms of what it can do in UU. The old standby TechniTop has fallen to the wayside, as too many Pokemon like Zapdos, Yanmega, and Cofagrigus can freely switch into Hitmontop's moves and deal heavy damage both to it and the rest of your team. A Bulk Up set might seem like a good idea, but it is outclassed by other Bulk Up or Curse users such as Scrafty and Snorlax, and it also lacks both the power and the bulk to do its job without excessive support. The rest of Hitmontop's movepool also has a few options that have not yet been mentioned, but they are sorely outclassed. Brick Break and Triple Kick lack the power to deal effective damage, and Triple Kick is also inconsistent in terms of both damage output and accuracy. Earthquake or Technician Bulldoze might seem like good ideas for hitting Nidoqueen and Nidoking while retaining coverage against Chandelure, but they have redundant coverage with Hitmontop's STAB moves. Finally, Counter is an acceptable move if you don't mind letting Hitmontop take a few hits. It has decent surprise value, but it is neither reliable nor recommended.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Hitmontop has a lot of Pokemon that can counter it under the right circumstances, but most of them must beware of at least one move from Hitmontop. Mew is one of the few exceptions to this rule; any set with Heal Bell or a Lum Berry can switch into and destroy Hitmontop with near impunity. Togekiss can somewhat claim the same for Heal Bell sets, but less bulky sets must beware of switching into Stone Edge. Nidoqueen and Nidoking both run roughshod over Hitmontop; it is hapless to do anything against them one-on-one. Even eliminating Stealth Rock is beyond it when faced with the offensive power of the royal pains. Cofagrigus, Slowbro, Gallade, and Sableye all hate Toxic, but otherwise laugh at anything Hitmontop could do and easily set up on it. Zapdos can check Hitmontop, but it hates both Stone Edge and Toxic, particularly if it is running an offensive set. Similarly, bulky Roserade can act as a solid check to Hitmontop, but repeated switch-ins can wear it down, as Close Combat and Stone Edge deal around 35% damage. Tricking a Choice item to Hitmontop cuts down on its effectiveness, but can also create more of a problem if Hitmontop manages to make use of the boost it gives. Ultimately, Hitmontop isn't the problem so much as the support it provides. Either have something that spits on everything it can do or take it out quickly, else you <em>will</em> regret it for the entirety of the match.</p>