[Overview]

<p>Despite its truly atrocious offensive stats, and defensive stats that are mediocre at best, Jumpluff is surprisingly good. Jumpluff makes up for its poor stats with a phenomenal movepool which, when coupled with its high Speed, make it great at supporting its fellow team members and annoying the opponent. Whilst having almost identical movepools, Jumpluff differentiates itself from Whimsicott by abusing its better special bulk, an important Ground-type, Spikes, and Toxic Spikes immunity, and access to Sleep Powder.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSeed
move 1: Sleep Powder
move 2: Leech Seed
move 3: Substitute
move 4: Encore / Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Chlorophyll
nature: Jolly
evs: 188 Def / 68 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is as simple and easy to use as it is effective: put the opposing Pokemon to sleep, Substitute on the switch, and begin Leech Seeding. When played correctly, this set can be incredibly annoying and difficult to take down. No HP EVs are invested to ensure Leech Seed restores as much of Jumpluff's health as possible, and the defensive EVs give Jumpluff a stat of 223 in both defenses. Encore should be used to lock an opponent into a harmless move (like Earthquake or Stealth Rock), and allows Jumpluff to set up after sleep clause has been activated.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>On its own, this set is poor; however, with support from entry hazards, it becomes very good due to the combination of Leech Seed and Encore's ability to force switches. Toxic Spikes is especially helpful in wearing down the opponent's team, especially opposing Grass-types that may stop Jumpluff in its tracks. Nidoqueen is a great defensive teammate because she has access to both Stealth Rock and Toxic Spikes, as well as a resistance to Rock-type moves and has overall nice bulk. Qwilfish also gets a mention due to having access to Toxic Spikes and Spikes, as well as a resistance to Ice-type moves.</p>

<p>Despite SubSeed being intensely annoying, Grass-types will find it relatively easy to break through Jumpluff with their immunity to Leech Seed. For this reason, Victini and Arcanine also make good offensive teammates, being able to take full advantage of any Grass-type switch-ins.</p>

<p>Despite Encore generally being considered the best option for Jumpluff, there are a few other options that can be used effectively. Toxic allows Jumpluff to more effectively take down Pokemon holding Leftovers, such as Rest-less Snorlax and Suicune. It also lets Jumpluff inflict some sort of damage on opposing Grass-types, though the most common ones, Roserade, Ferroseed, and Shaymin, don't mind it in the slightest. Protect can be used over Encore to increase Leech Seed or Poison damage; however, it becomes more difficult to set up without it. A double status set can be used by replacing Encore with Stun Spore so Jumpluff can continue to status foes after Sleep Clause's activation and cripple faster switch-ins. Finally, U-turn and Aerial Ace are both options in the fourth slot, so that Jumpluff can escape from or damage Grass-types, although Protect or Stun Spore are generally superior.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A sun support set can be used, abusing Encore and Sleep Powder to set up Sun; however, outside of these two moves, Jumpluff's frailty means that is outclassed by a myriad other Pokemon when attempting to set up sun. Jumpluff can also attempt to support its team with Reflect (which also bolsters its weaker defensive stat), although again, aside from abusing Sleep Powder and Encore to force switches, it is horribly outclassed in this role. Jumpluff gets access to the very useful moves Aromatherapy and Memento, which can be used with Sleep Powder and Encore for a general support set, though its poor bulk once again means that it is not well suited for that role. Jumpluff gets Infiltrator through the Dream World, though the only use of Infiltrator would be to bypass Safeguard with Sleep Powder; however, Safeguard is extremely rare and not common enough to warrant running Infiltrator. Jumpluff could also run Synthesis to heal itself reliably, however, Jumpluff cannot normally give up a moveslot for this, as it's preferable to set up a Substitute on any free turn that it may get.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Although Jumpluff is annoying, it can be dealt with. Xatu is probably the best counter, as Jumpluff can't put it to sleep due to Magic Bounce, and if it comes in on Sleep Powder, it can effectively neutralize Jumpluff for the remainder of the game. Another way to counter Jumpluff is through the use of Sap Sippers. Jumpluff can't touch them and they can come in on any set that Jumpluff is running and most likely get a +1 Attack boost. Sawsbuck and Bouffalant are the most notable Sap Sippers, so if they (or Xatu, for that matter) are seen in Team Preview, you should avoid spamming Sleep Powder and Leech Seed until they are taken care of.</p>

<p>If you are not inclined towards using one of these, SubSeed will be irritating to play around because many of its checks are susceptible to sleep. However, once Sleep Clause has been activated, Jumpluff is significantly easier to deal with. Roserade and Ferroseed can shrug off Jumpluff's attempts at SubSeeding and set up hazards with impunity. Furthermore, Pokemon with reliable recovery can effectively stall Jumpluff out so long as they avoid status. Any faster Pokemon that is in decent health can deal with Jumpluff but will need to watch out for Stun Spore, as it will cripple it, and it will be unable to effectively check Jumpluff. Similarly, multi-hit moves can break Jumpluff's Substitute and deal significant damage to Jumpluff, making anything with a multi-hit move an effective check. Grass-types are particularly troublesome, as they are immune to Leech Seed, making them effective checks as long as they avoid status. A fast Taunt (or a Pokemon with Prankster) will put a stop to any of Jumpluff's shenanigans. Finally, Crobat, Aerodactyl, and Azelf are all particularly effective checks, with all three being faster than Jumpluff and able to Taunt it, as well as being capable of taking it out with super effective attacks.</p>