[Overview] 

<p>Jynx has an excellent base 115 Special Attack stat and decent Speed and Special Defense stats of 95. From this information, Jynx may look like a great sweeper, but she is held back by a horrible base 35 Defense stat. This makes her extremely vulnerable to almost any physical attack coming her way, especially to the common Sucker Punch to which she has an unfortunate weakness. Her low HP stat doesn't help her either. On top of that, Jynx has always been overshadowed by other Psychic-type Pokemon such as Alakazam, even with her great Special Attack stat, and this generation is no different. UU's newest additions bring about even more Psychic-type Pokemon that outclass Jynx in some way, including Mew and Azelf. Both are faster than Jynx, while Mew is bulkier, and Azelf hits much harder. Jynx is weak to Stealth Rock as well, but she has some things up her sleeve that the aforementioned Pokemon don't: Lovely Kiss, a sleep-inducing move. With Lovely Kiss, Jynx has a much easier time setting up Nasty Plot or Calm Mind while her opponent is sleeping, making her a great late-game sweeper.</p>

<p>Jynx also received a new ability this generation: Dry Skin. With Dry Skin, Jynx receives an immunity to Water-type moves, recovering HP if hit by one. This makes her a great counter to Slowbro and some variants of Suicune, easily stopping their attempts at doing much back to her with Taunt. Dry Skin also restores HP in rain, which is great for Jynx. Even the ability's debilitating effects don't matter much, since many Fire-type moves already KO Jynx, and sun is uncommon in UU.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Psyshock / Focus Blast
move 4: Lovely Kiss / Substitute
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set is all about boosting Jynx's Special Attack with Nasty Plot. Get Jynx onto the field, either when one of your Pokemon has fainted, or come in on a resisted or weak special move. With Lovely Kiss, setting up becomes much easier. Substitute serves a similar purpose, protecting Jynx from damage and status. Ice Beam is Jynx's main STAB move, hitting hard off of Jynx's great Special Attack. Psyshock is a reliable secondary STAB move that takes care of special walls. Focus Blast hits Steel-type Pokemon, which resist Jynx's STAB moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Taunt is an option if you want a solid counter to Pokemon such as Suicune. If you opt to use Taunt, Psychic is a solid option over Psyshock, hitting Suicune harder. You can also use Hidden Power Ground to hit Victini hard, as it resists the listed moves, while still hitting Steel-type Pokemon hard. Shadow Ball is also an option to hit Victini and Slowbro, which also resist Jynx's other moves. Grass Knot or Energy Ball can also be used to hit Empoleon for neutral damage, which Shadow Ball can't do. Life Orb makes Jynx hit harder, but shortens her lifespan. Leftovers is the superior item, allowing Jynx to recover health while setting up when your opponent's Pokemon is asleep.</p>

<p>Since there are many Pokemon in UU with at least 100 base Speed, these Pokemon must be removed before Jynx can come in and set up. Rapid Spin support is a must, and Hitmontop is the best choice to provide this, resisting Rock- and Dark-type moves that Jynx is weak to, while Jynx resists Psychic-type moves that Hitmontop is weak to. Rain support is appreciated, as it helps Jynx recover even more HP each turn. Cresselia and Uxie are great at setting up weather. Suicune makes an excellent partner, as it resists Fire- and Steel-type moves that Jynx is weak to, and it takes physical moves with ease as well, preventing Jynx from being KOed because of her horrible Defense stat. Arcanine and Houndoom also make great partners, as they both are immune to Fire-type moves and resist Steel-type moves. Believe it or not, Reflect can actually help Jynx survive some neutral physical attacks. Uxie makes a good partner, as it can set up Stealth Rock, which can help score some extra KOs, as well as dual screens. It would also be a great idea to remove any Pursuit users before bringing Jynx out, since the move usually spells doom for her.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Ice Beam / Psyshock
move 3: Taunt / Substitute
Move 4: Lovely Kiss
item: Leftovers
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Timid
evs: 200 HP / 56 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike the Nasty Plot set, Jynx now takes on a more defensive role with Calm Mind. After one boost, weaker special moves from Pokemon such as Milotic won't break through one Substitute, and after several boosts, Jynx can survive even the most powerful special moves that aren't of the Fire-type. Lovely Kiss puts slower Pokemon and switch-ins to sleep, granting Jynx an easier time setting up. As an attacking option, Ice Beam is the preferred choice, as no Pokemon is immune to it, but Psyshock hits most special walls much harder than Ice Beam and takes care of the many Fighting-type Pokemon in the tier. With Taunt, this set also makes a great counter to most specially oriented Water-type Pokemon in the tier, such as Suicune, Slowbro, and Milotic, as they can't do much back at Jynx without their status moves.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The listed EVs give Jynx some bulk, and allow her to Speed tie with Arcanine and other base 95 Speed Pokemon in the tier. Jynx has several other attacking options. Focus Blast hits Dark- and Steel-type Pokemon hard. Hidden Power Ground hits Steel-type Pokemon as well, and takes care of Victini, which resists Jynx's STAB moves. Shadow Ball also hits Victini and takes care of Slowbro, which also resists Jynx's STAB moves. Grass Knot and Energy Ball are also options to hit Slowbro, and they hit Empoleon for neutral damage. However, these moves will usually not find a slot on Jynx's moveset, as it needs at least Calm Mind and Lovely Kiss. Rain support from the likes of Uxie is appreciated, as rain helps Jynx recover even more HP each turn. Rapid Spin support is a must, as Jynx is weak to Stealth Rock. Hitmontop makes an excellent partner, resisting Dark- and Rock-type moves that Jynx is weak to. Suicune is also a great partner, as it resists Fire- and Steel-type moves that Jynx is weak to, and takes physical attacks directed at Jynx with ease. Arcanine and Houndoom are great partners as well, as they are immune to dangerous Fire-type moves, and resist Steel-type moves.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Jynx has a wide movepool but can't really use all she has access to. Signal Beam can be used to hit Dark-type Pokemon for super effective damage. Jynx also has the combination of Mean Look and Perish Song, but she doesn't have the defenses to pull it off. Jynx also has access to Trick Room and Rain Dance, as well as other support moves such as Wish, Heal Bell, Toxic, Sweet Kiss, Reflect, and Light Screen, but other Pokemon pull those off more effectively. If you want to gamble a little for more power, Blizzard can be used, but it's not recommended. Jynx also has a wide physical movepool, but her Attack stat is very bad and she can only boost it with Meditate.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Every physical Pokemon that can outspeed Jynx can counter her, as her terrible Defense stat makes her vulnerable to almost any physical move. Mew with a positive Speed nature always outspeeds Jynx, and can hit hard with Shadow Ball or Shadow Claw. Houndoom with Sucker Punch will easily KO Jynx, and can also use its Fire-type moves to finish her off. Jynx is no match for Weavile either, as she is extremely weak to Pursuit. Cobalion resists Ice Beam and can KO Jynx with its STAB Fighting- or Steel-type moves.</p>