[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Kangaskhan has three attributes that stand out: it has a name which is nearly impossible to spell, it boasts good defenses and HP, and it possesses below average attacking stats. However, what makes Kangaskhan shine is hidden beneath the surface, a very underrated yet potent ability known as Scrappy. Scrappy negates the Ghost-type immunity to Normal- and Fighting-type moves, which allows Kangaskhan to use moves such as Low Kick and Double-Edge without fear of Ghost-types switching in; Kangaskhan uses that niche to attack with impunity. What Kangaskhan lacks in power, it makes up for in utility; the ability to achieve perfect coverage between just two moves is more than enough to justify Kangaskhan a spot on a team.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Band
move 1: Double-Edge
move 2: Hammer Arm / Drain Punch
move 3: Aqua Tail
move 4: Earthquake / Sucker Punch
item: Choice Band
ability: Scrappy
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike it's Normal-type friends, Kangaskhan can use a Choice item without fear of Ghost-types switching in and forcing it out, as Scrappy allows it to hit them with its Normal- and Fighting-type moves. Hammer Arm provides perfect coverage with Double-Edge. Kangaskhan also has access to Drain Punch, which can be used to counteract hazards or Pokemon which outsped and hurt it before getting KOed. However, due to its low HP regaining abilities, Hammer Arm is generally superior to Drain Punch. Aqua Tail is the only thing that can 2HKO Rhyperior running 140 HP EVs, while Earthquake deals high damage to Pokemon like Qwilfish, Nidoqueen, and Arcanine. Sucker Punch should only be used for revenge killing if you're feeling gutsy. The EVs should be obvious, max Attack and Speed for a Pokemon whose job is to outspeed and KO its opponents.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Kangaskhan has a relatively vast movepool, allowing it to pack specific moves to beat certain counters or whatever the team might need. Life Orb can be used if Kangaskhan needs to change moves to keep momentum on its side, but a loss of 10% of its max HP each time it attacks is a downer. Kangaskhan can run Knock Off to remove Eviolite from Pokemon such as Gligar. While it seems great at first, Kangaskhan is also running a Water- and Fighting-type move, which hit the both of them for super effective damage, respectively. Victini makes an excellent partner for Kangaskhan, with its good bulk, resistance to Fighting-type attacks, and ability to take on Rock- and Steel types with Grass Knot and V-create, respectively.</p>

[SET]
name: SubPunch
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Focus Punch
move 3: Return
move 4: Sucker Punch
item: Leftovers
ability: Scrappy
nature: Adamant
evs: 240 HP / 252 Atk / 16 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Luckily Kangaskhan was blessed with the perfect moves and qualities of a SubPuncher. The ability to create 101 HP Substitutes, perfect coverage between Focus Punch and Return, and a priority move in Sucker Punch tick all the boxes when it comes to a SubPuncher. Substitute and Focus Punch are the foundation of the strategy. Switch into something that doesn't threaten you, use Substitute on the switch, and then Focus Punch. Return is there just in case you can't use Focus Punch, while Sucker Punch is for priority, which is nice to have on the set. The SubPunch set has great potential, as it can 2HKO many common UU threats, making it difficult for them to remove Kangaskhan's Substitute without getting KOed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Due to the lack of Attack investment, physical walls with reliable recovery, such as Tangrowth and Slowbro, can beat Kangaskhan, especially due to Regenerator and strong STAB attacks. The Speed EVs allow Kangaskhan to outspeed max Speed base 55 Pokemon and uninvested Rotom. If you need to increase Kangaskhan's Speed, a spread of 212 HP / 120 Atk / 176 Spe with a Jolly nature can be used to outspeed base 80 Speed Pokemon. However, this Speed tier is no longer as important as it was in DPP, and Kangaskhan will have a hard time beating many faster opponents. Double-Edge can be used over Return to hit Kangaskhan's switch-ins harder. Expert Belt can be used to fake a Choice Band in order to lure in Steel-types, and then dispose of them with a well-timed Focus Punch, clearing the way for a teammate to sweep. However, this strategy is unreliable, and should not be trusted completely.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>In BW, Kangaskhan finally got access to a boosting move in Work Up. The move boosts Attack and Special Attack by 1 stage, and is probably most effective when used in one of the last two slots of the Choice Band set. Just make sure when using Work Up, change the item, as locking yourself into a boosting move is foolish. With Kangaskhan's fantastic special movepool, a mixed set with Work Up seems appealing, but due to its horrible Special Attack stat and Tauros being able to do this better, a mixed set just isn't viable. A support set is possible, with moves such as Counter, Knock Off, and Circle Throw, but with Kangaskhan's relatively poor defenses and lack of recovery, these moves are hard to pull off, and is best left to another Pokemon. Disable is usable, but Kangaskhan just doesn't have the ability to pull it off properly. A set of Fake Out, Endeavor, Return / Reversal, and Sucker Punch can be used, but Endeavor is slightly unreliable. However, with team support and proper prediction, it can pay huge dividends. Endure and Reversal is available, but until Salac Berry is released, it should be avoided. Kangaskhan gets Wish as an ADV event, but the lack of Scrappy, and the fact Lickilicky can do this better, makes Wish a poor choice in the long run.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The Choice Band set is difficult to counter or even check, but it can be played around, with various degrees of success. Rhyperior will never be OHKOed by Kangaskhan, and can hit back with powerful Earthquakes, but can't take repeated Hammer Arms. Steel- and Rock-types wall Kangaskhan as long as they avoid a Choice Band-boosted Fighting-type move. A bulky Hitmontop can take Kangaskhan on with Intimidate and Close Combat, but due to the lack of reliable recovery, it'll get worn down, slowly but surely. Gligar and Escavalier can counter Kangaskhan, but each need to be wary of the elemental punch they're weak to, while Gligar also has to be careful about Knock Off. SubPunch and Life Orb sets are easier to check, as most defensive Pokemon with reliable recovery and a decent STAB move can take Kangaskhan on, and win one-on-one. Defensive Arcanine and Zapdos can take on the SubPunch set, but both are weak to Stealth Rock, and both dislike repeated hits from Life Orb-boosted Double-Edge. Slowbro can take on any Kangaskhan set and possibly burn it with Scald and Slack Off repeatedly until Kangaskhan faints from the Life Orb recoil, or runs out of PP.</p>