[Overview]

<p>The super-cute, long-tongued Lickilicky returns this generation to find himself once again locked firmly in the lower tiers. Lickilicky is by no means a bad Pokemon; solid 110/95/95 bulk paired with respectable attack stats and a fabulous movepool means that Lickilicky is easy to fit into any team. He was given some fun new toys this generation in Dragon Tail, Work Up, and an improved Disable. The problem for Lickilicky is that for every set that he can run, something else can usually do it better, or at least differently. Alomomola and Clefable give Lickilicky competition as a support Pokemon, the former passing more health per Wish and the latter having Magic Guard and Encore. Luckily for Lickilicky, he's not as vulnerable as Alomomola is to physical and special attacks, respectively, and he is bulkier and more powerful than Clefable. Offensively, a plethora of physical and special sweepers hit harder and out-perform Lickilicky, despite his amazing coverage and bulk. A low 50 base Speed doesn't help get things done, either.</p>

<p>Never underestimate this rotund licking monster, however; his expansive movepool will leave the opponent guessing repeatedly about the moves he is carrying, and one misprediction can spell doom for your foe. Passing large Wishes, phazing with Dragon Tail, breaking walls with Life Orb sets...Lickilicky can practically do it all. And, when all else fails, Lickilicky can still exit the field in booming style, slinging a STAB Explosion into your opposition's face.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Wish
move 2: Protect
move 3: Body Slam / Return
move 4: Dragon Tail
item: Leftovers
ability: Own Tempo
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 176 Def / 80 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Lickilicky is a great support Pokemon for any team, setting himself apart from others with Dragon Tail, reliable attacking power, and balanced defenses. Wish and Protect allow Lickilicky to heal both himself and his team, passing 212 HP per Wish, the second-highest amount in the tier after Alomomola. Unlike Alomomola, Lickilicky has Body Slam to provide him with a consistent and powerful STAB attack, and its chance to paralyze the opponent is helpful too. He also doesn't have to fear special attacks like Alomomola; having balanced defenses gives Lickilicky an advantage when supporting the team compared to them. Dragon Tail is a great move that lets Lickilicky scout and phaze at the same time. Since he has ample bulk to take hits, the negative priority of Dragon Tail is usually not an issue.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>One of Lickilicky's greatest weapons is his unpredictability. There are several other options Lickilicky could utilize to support the team, including Heal Bell, Knock Off and Disable. Heal Bell turns Lickilicky into a clerical support Pokemon, curing your team of status effects. Knock Off rids the opponent of their precious items, crippling Eviolite users and neutering the power of Choice items. Disable can lock the foe out of an important move, giving one of your teammates a great chance to switch in and set up. If used, Heal Bell, Knock Off, or Disable should replace Dragon Tail; however, Lickilicky is typically more useful as a phazer. Explosion can be used over Return as a last-ditch effort to take something down with Lickilicky. The Explosion nerf was horrible for Pokemon such as Azelf, but having STAB with it still lets Lickilicky use Explosion well, and he can usually guarantee a KO against foes who don't resist it. Prediction is key when using Explosion, though; Lickilicky's low speed can make it a bit tricky to effectively time Explosion.</p>

<p>Lickilicky greatly appreciates entry hazards with this set since they help him rack up damage when phazing with Dragon Tail. Scolipede, Roserade, and Froslass work especially well since they aren't afraid of the Fighting-type attacks that are guaranteed to be sent Lickilicky's way. Speaking of Froslass, Ghost-types without reliable healing are great partners for Lickilicky; most can cripple Fighting-types with Will-O-Wisp and love the Wish support Lickilicky provides.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Lickilicky has a very large movepool, but most of what he can do outside of supporting is outclassed by other Pokemon. Boosting with Swords Dance, Work Up, or Curse would be plausible if it weren't for the plethora of Fighting-types running around. Any Lickilicky that boosts is a sitting duck for Fighting-type attacks, which usually dispose of him in one hit despite his bulk. There are some great coverage moves in Lickilicky's arsenal, including Ice Beam, Fire Blast, Thunderbolt, Shadow Ball, Focus Blast, Surf on the special side and Aqua Tail, Power Whip, Earthquake, Brick Break, Facade, Rock Slide, the elemental punches, Hammer Arm, Gyro Ball, and Zen Headbutt as physical options. Any of these attacks could be used for coverage depending on what your team needs to counter; Lickilicky has enough offensive capability to use them effectively in most cases.</p>

<p>Body Slam is another option for STAB, trading some power for the chance to paralyze. A SubPunch set is viable with Lickilicky's bulk and moderate power, but there are faster and stronger Pokemon who are better SubPunchers. Counter can catch an opponent completely off guard and grab a surprise KO. RestTalk works well with Lickilicky's natural bulk, but healing with Wish is more reliable and supports the team at the same time.</p>

<p>Cloud Nine is new for Lickilicky this generation, and is useful when using him to support on a Sandstorm team. Weather isn't that common in the UU tier, but neither is confusion. Cloud Nine is a perfectly acceptable alternative to Own Tempo, depending on whether one fears confusion or weather more. The biggest problem with Cloud Nine is that it is not legal with Wish, one of Lickilicky's main selling points.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Lickilicky is very difficult to counter initially due to his large and unpredictable movepool. Regardless, strong Fighting-type moves break Lickilicky down pretty quickly, and most Fighting-types are quick enough to outpace Lickilicky and KO him before he can strike. Toxic and Will-O-Wisp screw up Lickilicky's bulk and durability, and the latter severs the damage output of Return and Dragon Tail. Taunt stops Lickilicky from healing himself and his team.</p>