[Overview]
 
<p>Say hello to Manectric, one of the best users of a Choice item in UU. With its excellent base 105 Special Attack and Speed stats, it can effectively use both Choice Scarf and Choice Specs. However, Manectric's stats aren't the only things that make it such an effective Choice user. The electric dog has access to both Flamethrower and Overheat, giving it Fire-type moves to hit Grass-type Pokemon who resist Electric hard. Its ability, Lightningrod, grants it many switch-in opportunities, as it is immune to and receives a Special Attack boost from Electric-type attacks. Finally, Manectric has the coveted Switcheroo in its movepool, which allows it to cast away its Choice item, while crippling enemy walls. With these tools at its disposal, Manectric is an excellent addition to any team.</p>
 
[SET]
name: Choice
move 1: Thunderbolt / Volt Switch
move 2: Overheat / Flamethrower
move 3: Hidden Power Grass / Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Switcheroo 
item: Choice Specs / Choice Scarf
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>Manectric's most effective niche in the UU tier is as a great Choice item user, being an excellent wielder of both Choice Specs and Choice Scarf. If using Choice Specs, Manectric's main move will be Thunderbolt, as it provides reliable STAB that will hit anything that doesn't resist it hard. If, however, you go with Choice Scarf, Volt Switch is the preferred option, which still hits reasonably hard, and also allows Manectric to leave the field, granting you momentum. Overheat hits Grass- and Steel-type Pokemon, such as Shaymin and Escavalier, for super effective damage. Since two Overheats hit harder than two Flamethrowers, it is the preferred move. If you plan on keeping Manectric in for longer than that, or are preparing to Switcheroo the Choice item away, Flamethrower can be used instead. The choice of Hidden Power depends solely on what you'd like Manectric to hit. Hidden Power Grass hits notable foes such as Quagsire and Rhyperior for 4x super effective damage; Hidden Power Ice, however, lets Manectric hit Flygon. Finally, Switcheroo is mandatory in the last slot, as it is the reason Manectric is such an effective Choice user. Switcheroo allows Manectric to cripple walls, such as Dusclops, or slow set-up Pokemon, by locking them into a single move. Lightningrod is the best choice of ability as it grants Manectric an Electric-type immunity as well as a Special Attack boost when hit by Electric-type attacks. This is Manectric's main switch-in opportunity, as it is relatively frail.</p> 
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>As awesome as Manectric is, it does have some problems. Rotom-H, one of the most common Pokemon in the metagame, resists every single move in Manectric's arsenal. However, repeated Electric-type attacks will hurt. Likewise, Lanturn resists all of Manectric's moves if you opt for Hidden Power Ice. Special walls can take a hit from any move in this set for days. However, they must be wary of Switcheroo. As with all Choice sets, this variant of Manectric requires keen prediction to be effective. Volt Switch alleviates this a bit, as it lets you switch to a counter even if you predict incorrectly. Sigilyph makes an excellent partner for this set, as it attracts Electric-type attacks for Manectric to switch in on, while Sigilyph can burn physical attackers that threaten Manectric. Likewise, Manectric makes a good partner for Pokemon such as Bisharp and Azelf, which appreciate walls being softened or crippled, as Manetric can pave the way for a sweep either through Switcheroo or pure power.</p>
 
[SET]
name: Life Orb
move 1: Thunderbolt
move 2: Flamethrower / Overheat
move 3: Hidden Power Grass / Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Volt Switch
item: Life Orb
ability: Lightningrod
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>While it excels at utilizing a Choice set, Manectric can use a Life Orb set effectively as well. The Life Orb boost not only allows Manectric to hit very hard, but also gives it the freedom to switch moves. Thunderbolt provides it a reliable STAB move to hit most Pokemon hard. Flamethrower hits Grass-, Ice-, Steel-, and Bug-type Pokemon for super effective damage. You can elect to use Overheat in this slot for the added power; however, because Manectric can switch moves, this isn't recommended. The final coverage option is a choice between Hidden Powers. Hidden Power Grass allows Manectric to hit Quagsire and Lanturn for super effective damage, as they wall the rest of this set. Hidden Power Ice, on the other hand, allows Manectric to hit Flygon, while providing pseudo-BoltBeam coverage. Finally, Volt Switch lets Manectric maintain offensive momentum and gives it the ability to switch out to a counter. Timid is chosen over Modest to outspeed positive-natured base 100 Speed Pokemon. Lightningrod is the chosen ability as the Electric-type immunity it provides gives Manectric switch-in opportunities.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>A number of options can be used instead of Volt Switch. Substitute can be used to ease prediction, though Life Orb recoil and Substitute recoil rack up fast. Switcheroo can be used to cripple a wall, though this is best done with a Choice item.</p>
 
<p>Rotom-H, one of the more common Pokemon in the UU metagame, resists every move on this set, and is therefore a reliable check. Likewise, Lanturn, Quagsire, and Flygon can easily sponge all of Manectric's moves bar a super effective Hidden Power. Finally, since this set lacks Switcheroo, dedicated special walls can come in on anything Manectric has to offer with little to no fear. Pokemon that appreciate walls being damaged, such as Azelf, Bisharp, Cobalion, and Moltres, make excellent partners for this set, due to Manectric's prowess at softening walls.</p>
 
[Other Options]
 
<p>Manectric really doesn't have many other options. It has access to Curse and has the elemental fangs for coverage. With White Herb, one can attempt a gimmicky physical sweeper set. However, this is entirely outclassed by Luxray, and really shouldn't ever be used. Additionally, it has access to a few support moves in Roar and Light Screen, though due to its frailty, it really shouldn't employ these options. Finally, it can use Hidden Power Water to hit Rotom-H and Rhyperior super effectively, although bulkier variants of these Pokemon can take a hit and OHKO with Overheat and Earthquake, respectively.</p>
 
[Checks and Counters]
 
<p>As powerful as Manectric is, there are numerous Pokemon that give it problems. Specially oriented walls don't take much damage from any of Manectric's attacks, and they are able to heal off the damage. However, they have to be wary of Switcheroo from Choice sets. Likewise, Pokemon such as Cobalion and Azelf can outspeed non-Scarf versions, and threaten to OHKO Manectric with their powerful STAB attacks. Lanturn and Quagsire can wall Manectric if it lacks Hidden Power Grass. Flygon resists Thunderbolt and Overheat and takes little damage from Hidden Power Grass, and can switch in and threaten Manectric with Earthquake. Since Flygon is commonly seen equipped with a Choice Scarf itself, it is even more effective against Manectric, as it doesn't even fear Switcheroo. Rotom-H deserves a special mention as a check, as it resists every move in Manectric's competitive repertoire. Finally, Dugtrio can switch into Manectric's Electric-type attacks and trap it with its ability, Arena Trap. It can then outspeed and OHKO Manectric with Earthquake.</p>