[Overview]

<p>After residing in Uber for the DPP era, Mew finds itself in the odd position of being demoted two tiers to the UU tier. While Mew still has its classic movepool that features every TM and move tutor move in the game, it cannot make up for its bland Psychic typing and decent, but not outstanding, stat distribution. In UU however, Mew is one of the most versatile Pokemon, as it can take on almost every role and position. With access to a wide variety of boosting moves, such as Nasty Plot, Swords Dance, Calm Mind, and Bulk Up, Mew can turn into a powerful sweeper. In conjunction with Baton Pass, Mew can just as easily set up a devastating sweep for others on your team. Mew can also run an equally dangerous support set that can act as a stallbreaker, while continuously walling dangerous threats and shutting them down with Will-O-Wisp. While Mew doesn't have the power of the tier's strongest sweepers or the bulk of the tier's sturdiest walls, it can more than make up for it with its astounding versatility that makes Mew a great pick on any team.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Psyshock / Psychic
move 3: Fire Blast / Aura Sphere
move 4: Giga Drain / Dark Pulse
item: Life Orb / Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Hampered by limited distribution and unsuitable candidates, Nasty Plot is a move that's rarely used in the UU metagame. That isn't to say it is bad in any way; Nasty Plot is a powerful boosting move that instantly doubles the Special Attack stat of the user. For a Pokemon that has as wide a movepool as Mew, this extra power can be devastating. After a boost or two, Mew's decent base 100 Special Attack stat is skyrocketed to explosive levels. Psyshock is Mew's way to break through special walls, being able to hit them on their weaker Defense stat; however, the stronger Psychic can be used if you know your team can easily clear out special walls for Mew to sweep. Fire Blast is a powerful Fire-type move with excellent coverage. It annihilates common Steel-types such as Escavalier and Bronzong, both of which can easily take Mew's Psychic STAB. When using Fire Blast, Giga Drain is recommended, as it can drain bulky Water-types that would otherwise take a few boosts to break, while also offsetting Life Orb Recoil. When using Fire Blast and Giga Drain for coverage, bulky Normal- and Psychic-type Pokemon, such as Snorlax, Porygon2, and opposing Mew, become more of a problem. Instead, one can switch to Aura Sphere. Aura Sphere also provides good coverage with Mew's Psychic STAB, and hits Dark- and Normal-types hoping to switch into battle. Dark Pulse complements Aura Sphere and lets Mew defeat Ghost- and fellow Psychic-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Timid nature is used to let Mew hit the all important base 100 Speed bracket where threats such as Zapdos reside. The 4 Special Defense EVs are used so Porygon2 and Porygon-Z cannot obtain Special Attack boosts upon switching in. A bulkier EV spread of 240 HP / 128 SpA / 4 SpD / 136 Spe with a Timid nature takes advantage of Mew's respectable bulk to set up much more easily while boasting similar power. Life Orb is the main item, as despite Mew's ability to double its Special Attack, it often lacks power without boosts, necessitating the Life Orb. However, Leftovers is still viable, especially on bulkier EV spreads that can take hits while setting up. Lum Berry is also viable, being especially useful against walls that rely on status to slow down Mew. Pokemon such as Slowbro and Suicune who attempt to Toxic stall Mew will find themselves against a +2 healthy Mew once Lum Berry has been activated. Because Nasty Plot Mew has incredible coverage against most special walls, partners that appreciate these walls being removed, such as Raikou, are especially good teammates for Mew. It is also a good idea to plan for whatever your Mew cannot break: if you're using Fire Blast and Giga Drain, Mew can be paired with a bulky Fighting-type, such as Swords Dance Heracross and Virizion, to break Snorlax, Porygon2, or any Dark-type, and if you're using Aura Sphere and Dark Pulse, Mew can be paired with a strong Fire-type, such as Darmanitan, Vicitini, and Chandelure, to break Bronzong.</p>

[SET]
name: Swords Dance
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Zen Headbutt
move 3: Drain Punch
move 4: Sucker Punch
item: Life Orb / Leftovers
nature: Adamant / Jolly
evs: 252 Atk / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Mew can pull off a destructive Nasty Plot set, it can be equally deadly with a Swords Dance set. While its base 100 Attack seems to put Mew at a disadvantage compared to more powerful sweepers such as Mienshao and Darmanitan, Mew makes up for its offensive shortfalls with superior bulk and excellent versatility. What makes Mew a powerful sweeper is its excellent movepool and unpredictability. An opponent expecting a special attacking or defensive Mew will quickly find themselves exposed after letting Mew obtain a Swords Dance boost.</p>

<p>However, that isn't to say that Mew relies entirely on its unpredictability; even a known Swords Dance Mew can become a dangerous threat if left unchecked. Zen Headbutt is a powerful STAB move which, in conjunction with Mew's decent Speed, has a good chance to flinch the opponent. Drain Punch complements Mew's STAB, being able to pulverize Dark-types that shrug off Mew's Psychic-type assaults. Its ability to heal Mew should not be underestimated, as it allows Mew to restore health lost when setting up as well as mitigate Life Orb recoil. This passive recovery along with Mew's natural bulk means Mew is far more bulky than other common sweepers such as Mienshao and Weavile. Lastly, Mew rounds out its coverage with Sucker Punch, which hits Psychic-types that resist Zen Headbutt and Drain Punch. A powerful priority move in Sucker Punch lets Mew strike first against common Choice Scarf holders, such as Chandelure and Flygon, as well as beating Pokemon that naturally outspeed Mew. With perfect coverage, health regeneration, and priority, Mew is an extremely self-sufficient sweeper.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>An Adamant nature and maximum Speed allow Mew to outspeed base 85 Speed Pokemon, such as Heracross, Nidoking, Kingdra, and Rotom-A. The power from an Adamant nature is preferred as Mew is already fast and Sucker Punch is a significant perk of the set. An Adamant nature allows Mew to OHKO Flygon after just two switches into Stealth Rock with Sucker Punch, and has a good chance to 2HKO Suicune without hazards with Zen Headbutt. However, a Jolly nature can be used to outspeed threats such as Arcanine and Life Orb Darmanitan, and Speed tie with Shaymin and Zapdos. A few EVs are placed in Special Defense so Download Porygon2 and Porygon-Z are stuck with a useless Attack boost when switching in. The choice between Life Orb and Leftovers depends mostly on how you want Mew to be played. Drain Punch somewhat reduces Life Orb recoil and allows Mew to hit hard with little drawback. However, the combination of Drain Punch recovery and Leftovers keeps Mew alive against heavy harassment that would otherwise prevent Mew from sweeping. If you opt to use a more offensive EV spread, then Life Orb is the recommended choice, but bulkier EV spreads prefer Leftovers.</p>

<p>Although Mew has perfect coverage and immense power with Swords Dance, it still struggles against incredibly bulky walls and Pokemon who can dodge Sucker Punch. Cofagrigus can take Mew's attacks well enough to burn it with Will-O-Wisp and can hit it super effectively. Sableye can wall Mew by virtue of its typing which renders Zen Headbutt and Drain Punch useless. Sableye can then burn Mew and stall it out with Recover. Faster Pokemon that use Substitute can outpredict Mew by setting up a Substitute when Mew uses Sucker Punch, or hit Mew first if Mew doesn't use its priority move.</p>

[SET]
name: Specially Defensive
move 1: Taunt
move 2: Will-O-Wisp
move 3: Softboiled
move 4: Psyshock / Psychic
item: Leftovers
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 232 SpD / 24 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This Mew is one of the biggest thorns in the side of stall, or any team that doesn't have the raw power to 2HKO it. Taunt shuts down slow walls and prevents them from taking care of Mew through passive damage and stops them from healing HP or inflicting Mew with status while it breaks them. Taunt also prevents slower Pokemon, such as slower variants of Togekiss, from boosting their stats, and even lets Mew stop popular Stealth Rock users, such as Swampert and Bronzong, from setting up entry hazards. Mew then uses Will-O-Wisp; this cripples any physical attacker that isn't a Fire-type, and even special attackers hate the passive damage that they cannot heal because of Taunt. Softboiled keeps Mew healthy while its opponent slowly succumbs to passive damage, and also allows Mew to wall powerful Pokemon, such as Choice Specs Raikou, Zapdos, Nidoking, and Nidoqueen. Finally, Psyshock allows Mew to break Substitutes for popular Substitute sweepers, such as Raikou and Kingdra. Psychic is more powerful, but using Psychic means Mew will lose against Substitute + Calm Mind Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The 24 Speed EVs allow Mew to outspeed Adamant Honchkrow and burn it before it can use Brave Bird. The rest maximize its Special Defense, allowing Mew to become a great special wall. However, this set can use a spread of 252 HP / 80 SpD / 176 Spe with a Timid nature to outspeed Roserade and OHKO with Psyshock. Snorlax is a good partner for this Mew as it can switch into Chandelure and Yanmega, two huge threats to Mew, and fight back with strong physical moves. Umbreon lacks the ability to beat Yanmega, but it retains the ability to check Chandelure and also resists Dark-type attacks. Nidoqueen checks Heracross, which can be problematic if it sneaks into battle, and can set up entry hazards to deal even more damage to stall teams. If used on a more offensive team, Mew should be paired with a fast and powerful sweeper that takes advantage of crippled walls. Mew can switch into the Poison-type Pokemon, such as Crobat and Nidoqueen, that stop Heracross and Mienshao from sweeping and threaten them with super effective STAB Psyshock. Mew can cripple special walls such as Snorlax and Umbreon to open up sweep for a special sweeper such as Raikou or Zapdos. Mew can also cripple bulky Water-type Pokemon standing in the way of a Darmanitan or Victini sweep, but Scald burns can ruin its longevity.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Baton Pass
move 2: Taunt
move 3: Rock Polish
move 4: Nasty Plot / Swords Dance
item: Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 252 HP / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>In a tier where every Pokemon has high-powered attacks, crippling entry hazards, or debilitating status, it can be hard to fit a purely supportive Pokemon on your team. However, a well played Baton Pass Mew can easily set up a devastating sweep, ending games before the opponent has any time to react. Taunt is a staple move as it stops many traditional counters to Baton Pass, such as Roar, Whirlwind, status, and other Taunt users. Rock Polish used in conjunction with either Nasty Plot or Swords Dance can turn an already threatening Pokemon into a wrecking ball capable of rolling over teams. However, it can be difficult to set up both if your opponent is competent. Rock Polish by itself it great for supporting slow but powerful Pokemon such as Chandelure and Nidoking, both of which can annihilate teams once their glaring lack of Speed is rectified. A single Nasty Plot or Swords Dance can skyrocket the power of many Choice Scarf users and naturally fast Pokemon such as Crobat and Raikou.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Speed is always maximized so Mew can get off a crucial Taunt, boost, or Baton Pass as often as possible. The remaining EVs are allocated towards HP to give Mew more longevity. Barrier and Amnesia are defensive boosting moves that Mew can use and pass on to others as well. While they give no offensive boost to the receiver, they are excellent if Mew is leading a Baton Pass chain as the recipients will be significantly harder to take down, and the chain is less likely to be broken. Defensive boosting moves can also be useful if you wish to pass towards a bulky booster such as Snorlax who can easily use Curse along with the boosts provided by Mew to become an unstoppable steam roller. Calm Mind is a lesser boosting move that raises both Special Attack and Special Defense; it is also useful in Baton Pass chains and can be better than Nasty Plot and Swords Dance for receivers who rely on their bulk as opposed to their Speed.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>With such a wide movepool and excellent base stats, it should come as no surprise that Mew has plenty of other viable options. Choice Specs and Choice Band can turn Mew into a deadly wallbreaker that can take advantage of its many coverage moves to hit most walls super effectively. On the other hand, a Choice Scarf lets Mew outspeed all of the unboosted metagame and revenge kill a huge ammount of threats with its outstanding coverage. It can also use Transform as a gimmick to steal the opponent's boosts. Choice Scarf Mew can easily be catered to your teams needs; shoring up any weaknesses and vulnerabilities to certain sweepers. A dedicated lead set consisting of Stealth Rock, Explosion, and Taunt can be used to quickly set up Stealth Rock and prevent the opponent from doing the same. However, the dedicated lead set is often not as useful due to Team Preview, and can be better done by Azelf who has a similar moveset and stronger offensive stats. Of course, these are just a couple of the options Mew can run, Mew can learn any TM and move tutor move, so if it exists, Mew can use it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Due to Mew's versatility, countering it largely depends on the set it's running. Once Mew has revealed what moves it has, the appropriate counter or check can be brought in. Choice Scarf wielding revenge killers, such as Chandelure, Heracross, Krookodile, and Darminatan, can shut down both the Nasty Plot and Swords Dance sets, but have to be wary of Sucker Punch on the latter. However, it's because of Mew's power that none of the above should risk directly switching into it. Weavile and Zoroark outspeed Mew naturally and are immune to its STAB attacks while being able to hit Mew super effectively with their own. Sableye, through virtue of its typing and movepool, can easily shut down support and Baton Pass Mew with Taunt, while also being able to completely wall Swords Dance Mew. Unfortunately, Nasty Plot Mew is unphazed by burn and can easily destroy Sableye. Slowbro can check Swords Dance Mew by paralyzing it, thus making it easier to revenge kill, but it is soundly beat by Nasty Plot Mew and is setup bait for Baton Pass Mew. Slowking fairs decently against most Mew variants, but can be OHKOed by a +2 Giga Drain and can do little but Dragon Tail or fish for Scald burns against Taunt. Cofagrigus beats most Mew variants but cannot stomach a Nasty Plot boosted Dark Pulse; it can otherwise remove boosts with Haze and set up Trick Room and Nasty Plot to turn the tables against Mew.</p>