[Overview]

<p>A lot has changed since the beginning of BW UU, and Mismagius finds her old niches taken up by newer Ghost-types. Cofagrigus or Sableye make better spinblockers and bulky Ghost-types, the former thanks to a significant bulk advantage, and the latter has the ability to effectively stallbreak by having priority on moves such as Will-O-Wisp, Recover, and Taunt. The powerful Chandelure outshines Mismagius offensively with much higher Special Attack, and a powerful secondary STAB. However, Mismagius is not finished yet. She holds on to the small niche of a fast setup sweeper, which no other Ghost-type can do as effectively. That's not Mismagius's only advantage. She has the ability Levitate, which when combined with Ghost typing, gives three immunities for potential free switches and set up attempts. Thanks to the consequential Spikes immunity and the lack of Stealth Rock weakness, Mismagius is the most hazard-resistant Ghost-type in UU. While Stealth Rock shaves a quarter off of Chandelure's health, and Spikes-stacking teams make Cofagrigus's life hard, Mismagius will never have to lose more than an eighth of her health to hazards. She might not be as solid of a counter as Cofagrigus is, but Mismagius can still check powerful Fighting-types like Heracross and Mienshao with her immunity to their STAB, while still providing an offensive presence.</p>

[SET]
name: Nasty Plot
move 1: Nasty Plot
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Hidden Power Fighting
move 4: Thunderbolt / Taunt
item: Life Orb / Leftovers
ability: Levitate
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set embodies Mismagius's niche. This set is meant to get into battle after a KO or take advantage of one of Mismagius's three immunities, set up a Nasty Plot quickly, then finish off weakened teams with blazing Speed and boosted attacks. Mismagius's strongest move is her STAB Shadow Ball, which becomes very formidable after a boost. It is the main move used in sweeping teams, as after some residual damage, it is very hard to survive. Hidden Power Fighting provides perfect coverage with Shadow Ball, hitting Normal-, Dark-, and Steel-types for super effective damage. While its Base Power isn't very high, after a boost it still manages to finish off most Pokemon that resist Ghost-type attacks. It can also achieve the impressive feat of 2HKOing Porygon2, Umbreon, and Snorlax with some hazards. However, the latter two can threaten with physical Dark-type moves that can ruin Mismagius. Thunderbolt allows Mismagius to break through Togekiss, whose special bulk and neutrality to Fighting-type attacks make it hard to scratch. It deals more damage to Empoleon than Hidden Power Fighting, and allows Mismagius to OHKO it with just one layer of Spikes or a little residual damage. Taunt is a viable move in the last slot, as it allows Mismagius to prevent support Pokemon from crippling her with status, or healing off damage. It also allows her to set up on RestTalk Snorlax, but she must still beware Crunch.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are very simple; Mismagius just needs to hit as hard and as fast as possible. Substitute can be used in the fourth slot to ease prediction in case a faster check tries to switch into battle. When she hides behind a Substitute, Mismagius has a clear shot at them with Shadow Ball or Hidden Power Fighting, or she can switch safely out of Pursuit. Substitutes will wear Mismagius down quickly combined with Life Orb recoil, so Leftovers can be used instead of Life Orb for more Substitutes at the cost of needed offensive power. Will-O-Wisp can also be used in the fourth slot to cripple any physical attacker, but the support move is a little out of place on a set dedicated to sweeping.</p>

<p>Like any sweeper, Mismagius loves entry hazards. Mismagius cleans up the opposing team, so hazards and residual damage are absolutely necessary so she can do her job. Scolipede makes a great teammate for these purposes; thanks to his high Speed, he is easily able to set up multiple layers of Spikes which will chip away at the opponent's Pokemon throughout the battle. That gives Mismagius a much easier sweep late-game. Offensively, Swords Dance Cobalion makes a great partner for Mismagius. Cobalion attracts bulky waters and Gligar to the field to stop his sweep, and Mismagius has no qualms switching into weak Scalds or Earthquake thanks to her special bulk and Ground-type immunity. Inversely, Cobalion loves switching into Snorlax and Umbreon, and gets a Justified boost from their Dark-type attacks.</p> 

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Will-O-Wisp / Thunder Wave
move 2: Heal Bell / Taunt / Perish Song
move 3: Pain Split
move 4: Shadow Ball
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 236 HP / 176 Def / 96 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Mismagius is often seen being used offensively due to her high Speed and Special Attack and access to neat setup options in Nasty Plot and Calm Mind; however, Mismagius is equipped with the necessary qualities to make her a viable defensive Ghost-type. Unlike Cofagrigus and Sableye, Mismagius packs significantly more Speed, better special bulk, and Levitate to minimize the entry hazard damage both Cofagrigus and Sableye are vulnerable to. Furthermore, Mismagius boasts a wide variety of support moves that Cofagrigus, and to an extent Sableye, lack. Because of this, Mismagius deals with a variety of offensive threats, such as Nidoking, Nidoqueen, Mienshao, Rhyperior, and Heracross, very well.</p>

<p>Will-O-Wisp is the primary status move of choice, as it cripples a whole slew of physical threats that can prove troublesome to Mismagius and her teammates, and further improves Mismagius's walling capabilities. On the other hand, Thunder Wave differentiates Mismagius from her fellow Ghost-types and can be used to neuter troublesome opponents, particularly faster threats such as Crobat, Cobalion, and Raikou. Heal Bell is another move exclusive to Mismagius as a Ghost-type and helps rid herself and her teammates of harmful status effects. However, if cleric support is not necessary, Mismagius makes a great user of Taunt due to her high Speed. This makes her a great stallbreaker, but keep in mind that Mismagius faces stiff competition with Sableye as a stallbreaker because of Sableye's Prankster ability and access to a more reliable recovery move. As a final alternative, Mismagius is the only notable Ghost-type to claim Perish Song, which is a decent option over the previous two moves, as it is able to dispose of sweepers that cannot be handled easily, such as Curse Snorlax and Calm Mind Suicune. Lastly, Pain Split is Mismagius's only form of reliable recovery, and Shadow Ball provides her with a decent STAB attack to avoid being Taunt bait.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs allow Mismagius to outpace neutral-natured max Speed Kingdra, Heracross, and Nidoking to burn or Taunt them before they make a move, and the rest of the EVs are dumped into HP and Defense to take on physical hits better outside of a Will-O-Wisp burn; the Defense EVs specifically provide a Defense jump point. It's also possible to use an EV spread of 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 Spe with a Timid nature to outpace max Speed base 100s such as Victini, which seeks enjoyment switching into Will-O-Wisp. Also, Protect can be used over Pain Split if you prefer to capitalize on burn damage and stall Perish Song turns.</p>

<p>As Mismagius fits nicely on bulky offense teams, it's recommended to utilize Pokemon that allow Mismagius to take advantage of her strengths, namely her Fighting immunity and status and cleric support. Curse Snorlax works really well because he lures in Fighting-types such as Mienshao and Heracross that Mismagius can switch into and potentially burn; Snorlax also appreciates the Heal Bell support should he be running Rest as well. Since Mismagius often lures in Dark- and Steel-types such as Umbreon and Cobalion, Hitmontop works great to dispose of them relatively easily with Close Combat; he benefits from Heal Bell as well should he have been crippled with burn or poison status. Finally, given that Mismagius performs well as a spinblocker, entry hazard support is recommended. Rhyperior and Aggron can use Stealth Rock, and their Ground- and Fighting-type weaknesses are handily taken care of by Mismagius. Aggron also has access to Thunder Wave, making him and Mismagius a decent paralysis-spreading core should Mismagius use Thunder Wave herself, which in turn allows Pokemon such as Bulk Up Scrafty, Swords Dance Heracross, and Nasty Plot Porygon-Z to take advantage of the crippled opposition. In terms of Spikes support, Omastar is a great option that also appreciates Mismagius covering his Ground- and Fighting-type weaknesses.</p>

[SET]
name: Substitute + Calm Mind
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Hidden Power Fighting
item: Leftovers
ability: Levitate
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The Nasty Plot set is a late-game sweeper, designed to finish off the opponent's crippled team. This set is a mid-game sweeper, which will come in and out of battle many times to start setting up and breaking down the opponent's team. The Spikes immunity really helps here, as Mismagius can switch in and out of battle without taking too much damage. This set can come in on slow special attackers, set up a Substitute to dodge status and ease prediction, then start setting up Calm Minds. Again, Shadow Ball is the main sweeping move, but it won't get all the OHKOs that the Nasty Plot set does. Instead, it can get a lot of 2HKOs while having the Substitute to fall back on. Hidden Power Fighting is even weaker with less boosts and no Life Orb, but it is still Mismagius's best weapon against frail Dark-types. It is even more effective behind a Substitute, as the Pursuit and Sucker Punch mind games are averted.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs on this set are subject to more variation. The suggested spread maximizes power and Speed again, but bulkier spreads are viable. 112 HP EVs ensure that U-turn from the likes of Jolly Choice Scarf Darmanitan and Flygon will never break her Substitute. 224 HP EVs guarantee against Adamant Darmanitan, and gives her Substitute a fighting chance against Blastoise's Scald without a Calm Mind boost. Not even maximum investment can guarantee the Substitute will survive a Scald from UU's plethora of bulky Water-types. Overall, Mismagius's physical bulk is impossible to save, and her special bulk is already getting a boost.</p>

<p>This set appreciates type synergy more as it comes in and out of battle. Cobalion becomes even more solid a partner, as he resists both of Mismagius's weaknesses, and in turn Mismagius is immune to two of Cobalion's three weaknesses. The pair can trade places throughout the match, setting up and weakening each other's counters. While he doesn't have the same type synergy as Cobalion, Swords Dance Heracross is a great offensive partner for Mismagius. He can still come into Mismagius's full stops like Snorlax and Umbreon, and during the switch he can prepare to devastate the opposing team with Swords Dance. This set cannot deal a lot of damage quickly, but that is exactly what Swords Dance Heracross does well. His massive power will protect Mismagius's team against tough stall teams.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>There aren't many other options Mismagius can effectively run aside from those listed. A Choice set is possible, but Choice Specs Mismagius is only a little more powerful than Choice Scarf Chandelure, and Mismagius lacks the powerful secondary STAB Chandelure has in Fire Blast. A Choice Scarf set is very fast, but it lacks the raw power of other Choice Scarf users such as Mienshao. Most of its moves are not very good to be locked into either.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Umbreon can shut Mismagius down, as it can tank Hidden Power Fighting and threaten with Payback. Snorlax with Crunch can tank Hidden Power Fighting even better and OHKO back. Some Snorlax can also Whirlwind away Mismagius's boosts if she lacks Taunt. Weavile, Sharpedo, Zoroark, and Choice Scarf Krookodile are faster and can easily OHKO her, but they have to watch for Substitute sets that can dodge the Dark-type move and hit with Hidden Power Fighting, and they aren't safe switching into her. Fast Choice Scarf users such as Darmanitan, Victini, and Flygon can check Nasty Plot Mismagius, but again they have to be careful switching into her as STAB Shadow Ball can hurt. Choice Scarf Chandelure can do the same, but Shadow Ball is even more disastrous. Azumarill can revenge kill Mismagius with a powerful Aqua Jet after a few turns of Life Orb recoil and Stealth Rock damage. Crobat is naturally faster than Mismagius and can threaten it with a powerful STAB Brave Bird, and bulkier sets can even switch in without fear. Dark-types with Sucker Punch such as Houndoom, Honchkrow, and Bisharp can play mind games, threatening with Sucker Punch if Mismagius attacks, or a powerful move if she Nasty Plots again. Substitute sets can negate this to an extent, but Mismagius has a hard time breaking though Honchkrow without Thunderbolt.</p>