[Overview]

<p>Legend has it that a phoenix's flame never dies out. Moltres, who was so dominant in previous generations, rises up from the ashes to grace UU once more, igniting all that come before it with its majestic powers. With an impressive base 125 Special Attack, Moltres can scorch even the bulkiest of walls by unleashing a barrage of Fire Blasts upon these unfortunate foes. With excellent bulk and access to Roost, it seems as if the phoenix truly is indestructible. However, the most recent episode of Mythbusters has proven that all it takes to slay Moltres is to toss a pebble at it. As just about every team carries a Stealth Rock user, Moltres is unable to fully spread its wings. Furthermore, with bulky Waters, such as Suicune of the North Wind, looking on, Moltres finds itself backed into tight corner. However, even with the chink in its armor revealed, Moltres is a force to be reckoned with, for if one neglects to deal with it, it will swiftly devour the opposing team in its regal flames.</p>

[SET]
name: Sweeper
move 1: Fire Blast
move 2: Air Slash
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Roost / Flame Charge
item: Life Orb / Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The first thing that jumps out as you gaze upon Moltres's Pokedex entry is its base 125 Special Attack. Augmented by excellent STAB moves, such as Fire Blast and Air Slash, you have yourself one deadly bird. In fact, Moltres is so offensively potent, that with Stealth Rock and Spikes support, it could even 2HKO Milotic, who is actually considered one of the best Moltres checks in the tier, with Fire Blast! Moltres is certainly no glass cannon, sporting a defensive stat distribution of 90 HP / 90 Def / 85 SpD, and with decent Speed, Moltres is far more durable than its 4x Stealth Rock weakness would indicate. Fire Blast and Air Slash provide it with two formidable STABs that hit much of the metagame for at least neutral damage. Hidden Power Grass disposes of those that resist this combination, such as Rhyperior, while simultaneously disposing of troublesome bulky Waters, such as Swampert. Roost is the preferred move in the final slot, as it temporarily removes its weakness to moves such as Thunderbolt, and also cancels out recoil damage from Life Orb or Stealth Rock. However, Flame Charge can be used instead to give Moltres the jump over potential revenge killers.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Maximum Speed and Special Attack investment capitalizes on Moltres's offensive capabilities, and 0 HP EVs enable it two switches into Stealth Rock. While a Timid nature is preferred to Speed tie opposing base 90s, a Modest nature can be used to increase Moltres's damage output. For the same reason, Life Orb is the item of choice, although if using Flame Charge instead of Roost, Leftovers can be used to provide Moltres with a form of recovery, although this greatly neuters this set's destructive power. Status, especially Thunder Wave, puts a wrench into Moltres's plans, so Substitute can be used to block status, although the recoil damage will build up. Flamethrower can be used in place of Fire Blast if one prefers accuracy over power, although Moltres loses the ability to raze entire teams with just one move.</p>

<p>Stealth Rock is the bane of Moltres's existence, and as such, Rapid Spin support is mandatory. Blastoise is an excellent choice, as it resists Water-type moves directed at Moltres, and disposes of troublesome Flash Fire Pokemon, such as Arcanine and Chandelure. The duo forms two-thirds of a Fire, Water, Grass core. Hitmontop is another great teammate, as it not only provides Rapid Spin support, it also disposes of Snorlax, which walls Moltres all day long, courtesy of Thick Fat. Although Stealth Rock sends Moltres screaming like a little girl, the phoenix appreciates entry hazards support of its own; Spikes are especially helpful, as they have the potential to turn numerous 3HKOs into 2HKOs and 2HKOs into OHKOs. Roserade is one of the premier Spikes users in the tier, who also happens to take out those pesky bulky Waters that swarm around Moltres like flies. Grass- and Electric-types, such as Shaymin and Raikou, ensure that Suicune wont ruin our little pyromaniac's fun.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Specs
move 1: Fire Blast
move 2: Air Slash
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: U-turn
item: Choice Specs
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 Def / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Much like the Life Orb variant, Choice Specs Moltres can make any Pokemon (except Snorlax I guess) think twice about switching in. Especially in the Spikes infested UU tier, Moltres can blast through even the sturdiest walls by virtue of its sky high Special Attack, potentially opening up a sweep for a teammate. Backed by decent Speed and bulk, Moltres is a force to be reckoned with. This Pokemon is certainly not welcomed by those friendly forest animals we all know and love. Although Choice Specs Moltres can send most Pokemon running for the hills upon entrance, it is not without its flaws. First of all, as with any Choice item user, Moltres is expected to switch in and out multiple times throughout the game for fear of becoming setup fodder. While this isn't much of a problem for most Pokemon, Moltres has to contend with Stealth Rock, which effectively limits the volcanic bird to two switch-ins when active. Still, with proper Rapid Spin support, Moltres can find its way around this problem and proceed to execute any walls unfortunate enough to encounter this inferno assassin.</p>

<p>Fire Blast can eradicate just about any Pokemon that does not resist it. Those that do resist Fire Blast must answer to Air Slash, which is doubly annoying thanks to the 30% flinch rate. Pokemon that resist this STAB combination, such as Rhyperior, get demolished by Hidden Power Grass. Even bulky Waters, such as Suicune and Milotic, that normally come in with ease, must watch out for Choice Specs Hidden Power Grass. U-turn is a useful move for scouting switch-ins, but be aware that if Stealth Rock is up, U-turn will do more harm than good. Since Moltres is bound to force many switches, U-turn helps the entry hazard damage pile up on the opposing side. Just remember, Moltres is usually much better off using one of its vicious attacks. Just set up entry hazards, sit back, and watch the KOs pile up.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Choice Scarf set is viable to get the jump on faster Pokemon, and would certainly be useful for revenge killing troublesome Pokemon, such as Weavile. Keep in mind, though, that Moltres's greatest asset is its ability to make opposing walls shudder in fear, and it is much more effective firing off a barrage of powerful Specs-boosted attacks. The duty of revenge killer can be left to a less, lets just say, Rock fearing pocket monster. Of course, Flamethrower can be used instead of Fire Blast for accuracy reasons; however, you will miss out on important KOs, including a 2HKO on Milotic after Stealth Rock and Spikes damage. If you opt for a Choice Scarf, though, Flamethrower is certainly an excellent option. Overheat can be used as a one-turn howitzer, but Fire Blast is much more useful in the long run, especially since Overheat forces Moltres to switch, which it should be doing as little as possible.</p>

<p>Even more so than the Life Orb set, Stealth Rock prevention is crucial to this set's survival. Hitmontop is an excellent option, as it can take out Snorlax, who would otherwise induce Moltres into fits of rage. It also has access to Foresight to ensure a successful spin, because every turn Stealth Rock remains on the field is a turn Moltres can't even poke its head out of its nest. Blastoise is another Pokemon with access to Foresight, and has great defensive synergy alongside the blazing phoenix. Moltres would also love to just spam Choice Specs Fire Blasts, so carrying a Water-type, such as Suicune, Milotic, and the aforementioned Blastoise would certainly help. They, along with Roserade, form a solid Fire, Water, Grass core, where Roserade provides the Spikes support, Blastoise provides the spin support, and Moltres provides the firepower (pun not intended). Pokemon that can dispatch bulky Waters, such as Shaymin and Zapdos, are always welcome teammates. Pokemon that provide Spikes, such as Froslass, are welcomed guests as well.</p>

[SET]
name: SubRoost Staller
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Roost
move 3: Toxic
move 4: Flamethrower
item: Leftovers
nature: Timid
evs: 248 HP / 36 Def / 224 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The phoenix is a mythical bird that never dies; legend has it that each time tragedy befalls it, it revives itself to grace the Earth once more. This set may have had some influence on that legend, for SubRoost Moltres is incredibly difficult to bring down. Moltres is generally thought of as a ferocious attacker who scorches the Earth with its mighty flames, but it also has underrated bulk. This, on top of a solid defensive typing (pretend Stealth Rock doesn't exist), as well as a solid stalling ability in Pressure, means Moltres is quite an impressive wall as well. Even with Stealth Rock in play, Moltres can often stop a number of powerful attackers in their tracks, such as Machamp, Heracross, Escavalier, and Cobalion.</p>

<p>Substitute and Roost keep Moltres healthy, status free, and happy to serve you game after game. Substitute, of course, blocks Toxic, Thunder Wave, and other troublesome moves targeted at Moltres, while simultaneously acting as a buffer against potential revenge killers and easing prediction. Roost, on the other hand, provides Moltres with valuable healing, and can cancel out Stealth Rock damage should Moltres be dragged out by a rogue Roar before you have a chance to spin. In tandem with Pressure, Moltres can also attempt to Roost stall moves, such as Thunderbolt. Toxic is Moltres's status move of choice, as Moltres could easily stall out a myriad of threats between Substitute and Roost. It has excellent coverage alongside Flamethrower, Moltres's most reliable STAB move.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>224 Speed EVs allow Moltres to outpace max Speed Rotom-H and neuter it with Toxic, behind a Substitute of course. 248 HP EVs ensure maximum overall bulk, and enable 2 switches into Stealth Rock. The remaining EVs are dumped into Defense, as the majority of Moltres's targets are physically oriented. Will-O-Wisp can be used in place of Toxic, but mono Fire-coverage leaves Moltres helpless against Flash Fire versions of Chandelure and Arcanine. Air Slash can be used in place of Flamethrower, but Flamethrower is necessary to dispose of Escavalier and crew. Protect can be used to rack up status damage, but Substitute is generally a superior option, as it blocks status.</p>

<p>As with any good team that employs Moltres, Rapid Spin support is a necessity. While this set is more self sufficient, and doesn't despise Stealth Rock as much as the previous two sets, you would be much better off using that turn to use Substitute or Toxic instead of Roost. As previously mentioned, Hitmontop and Blastoise are your two best choices. Both have access to Foresight; the former can take out the ever so annoying Snorlax, while the latter can take Water-type moves directed at Moltres. This set definitely needs a teammate to get rid of bulky Waters, as it does not have the offensive potential to bring them down, nor can it stall them out between Substitute and Roost. Pokemon such as Shaymin, Raikou, and Zapdos are great as always, but Roserade is still probably the best choice. This time, rather than carrying Spikes, Roserade can provide Toxic Spikes to make Moltres's life that much easier.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Safeguard is another way to protect Moltres from status, but Substitute is generally a superior option, and Moltres will more often than not just be firing off powerful attacks left and right. AncientPower can be used to hit Rotom-H, who resists Moltres's three most common attacks, and can threaten in return with Volt Switch. Rest can be used instead of Roost to rid Moltres of both status and damage, but the risks associated with being asleep for two turns makes it unappealing. Finally, if you're feeling gutsy, you could attempt a SunnyBeamer set to draw in and take out weakened bulky Waters, while simultaneously boosting Fire Blast's destructive potential. However, this is a gimmick at best, and Moltres would be much better off using this moveslot for Roost or Flame Charge instead.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>When dealing with Moltres, the most obvious course of action would be to get Stealth Rock onto the field. Although Moltres will almost surely be paired with a spinner, Stealth Rock will still dissuade Moltres from coming in for a number of turns. Aerodactyl is an excellent choice; it can set up Stealth Rock with ease, as well as force Moltres out thanks to its Rock STAB and superior Speed. Rhyperior is another outstanding check to Moltres that brings the full package to the table. It sets up Stealth Rock, resists the Fire / Flying STAB combination, and breaks through Substitutes with Rock Blast. However, the heavy armor rhino must watch out for Hidden Power Grass itself. Swampert is in a similar boat, as it can easily tank a Fire Blast and either set up Stealth Rock or KO with a Water STAB, but it too fears Hidden Power Grass. Other notable Stealth Rock users include Bronzong, Empoleon, and Registeel, but they all struggle to take a Fire Blast.</p>

<p>As far as counters go, Snorlax is probably your best bet. Thanks to its exceptional special bulk and ability, Thick Fat, Snorlax can take a Fire Blast with impunity and either Curse or fire off a powerful attack. Rotom-H resists all three of Moltres's common offensive moves and can threaten it with an Electric STAB. Bulky Waters, such as Suicune and Milotic, can take on most sets, although with Stealth Rock and Spikes support, Moltres could nab a surprise 2HKO. Pokemon that carry Flash Fire, namely Chandelure and Arcanine, are immune to Fire Blast, and can retaliate with Hidden Power Rock and Wild Charge respectively, but both must be wary of Air Slash. A number of revenge killers also fare well against the firebird. Azumarill can take out Moltres with ease with a powerful Choice Band Aqua Jet. Raikou and Zapdos can also outspeed and slay the phoenix with a powerful Thunderbolt.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Flame Body is, for the most part, an upgrade over Pressure, potentially crippling would-be counters such as Azumarill with a burn before Moltres goes down. Because Flame Body activates from behind a Substitute, the ability can be particularly strong on the SubRoost set. However, giving up Pressure can mean the difference between stalling out Bisharp's Sucker Punch or Machamp's Stone Edge and fainting. Flame Body will treat you better overall, but think twice before upgrading.</p>