[Overview]

<p>Nidoqueen is generally regarded as a more defensively oriented Pokemon, and with the many new toys that it received this generation, it can perform that job better than ever. While overlooked during the times on DPP, Nidoqueen was blessed with the ability Sheer Force from the Dream World to power up many of its attacks to sky high levels, even without investment. The Queen also boasts a decent defensive typing with key resistances to Fighting-, Bug-, and Rock-type moves; furthermore, it has immunity to Electric-type attacks. In addition, Nidoqueen is not affected by Thunder Wave or Toxic, and it can absorb Toxic Spikes on its own. With a good movepool containing support, phazing, and offensive moves, Nidoqueen has quite a few options to choose from that can support your team's needs. Nidoqueen, through the transition to BW2, became one of the most reliable Stealth Rock setters in UU because few Pokemon can use Rapid Spin against it safely. Blastoise is 2HKOed by Earth Power or Sludge Wave and fails to OHKO with Scald. Hitmontop is 2HKOed by both attacks as well. Xatu does not ever want to switch in because even defensive variants will not enjoy taking Ice Beam. Even Cryogonal is OHKOed by Fire Blast or Focus Blast and it cannot OHKO with Ice Beam, unless it's using an offensive EV spread.</p> 

<p>Sadly, Nidoqueen is not without its flaws. A Base 76 Speed is average at best and a weakness to Ground-types often can hold Nidoqueen back against faster threats. Not to mention, in the fully offensive role, Nidoqueen is always outclassed by its older brother, Nidoking, which also boasts Sheer Force but has higher offensive stats. To boot, Nidoqueen has no recovery outside of Rest, Black Sludge, or Leftovers. Despite these drawbacks, Nidoqueen is a threat that should not be overlooked, and if you are looking for a solid defensive Poison-type to set up Stealth Rock or wreak some havoc as a bulky attacker, why not give Nidoqueen a chance?</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Earth Power
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Ice Beam / Focus Blast / Sludge Wave
move 4: Stealth Rock / Focus Blast
item: Life Orb
ability: Sheer Force
nature: Modest
evs: 100 HP / 252 SpA / 156 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Nidoqueen becomes an offensive force to be reckoned with while still having enough bulk to be a good check to Fighting- and Bug-type Pokemon in the tier. Thanks to Sheer Force, Life Orb recoil is canceled, effectively giving Nidoqueen a 1.7x boost to her attacks with no secondary effects. Earth Power is usually Nidoqueen's most reliable STAB, as it can OHKO Pokemon such as Darmanitan, Victini, Chandelure, Rhyperior, and Cobalion. Fire Blast is necessary to get past the likes of Bronzong who would otherwise wall this set. Next, Ice Beam catches Pokemon such as Flygon, Zapdos, Gligar, and Claydol off guard, but Focus Blast also can hit some other targets hard, namely Umbreon, Snorlax, and Clefable. However, be mindful of Focus Blast's low accuracy. Sludge Wave also can hit a lot for neutral damage with its STAB despite the poor coverage. Lastly, Nidoqueen can set up Stealth Rock; however, if your team already has a Stealth Rock user, Focus Blast should be put there.</p> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs on this set allow Nidoqueen to reach 227 Speed, outrunning Xatu, Roserade, most Togekiss, and defensive Arcanine. From there, Nidoqueen can easily KO these Pokemon with a super effective move. Life Orb is the only item to be used on this set because it provides great offensive power at no cost to Nidoqueen. Modest nature is always best for this set; if you even considered running Timid nature, use Nidoking instead.</p>

<p>Bronzong is a great partner for Nidoqueen because they both have good synergy with each other. Thanks to Bronzong's Levitate and good defenses, Bronzong can take on Krookodile's Earthquakes or Crunches, Flygon Choice-locked into Earthquake or Outrage (watch out for Fire Punch!), and Weavile. Like Bronzong, Pokemon such as Umbreon and Calm defensive Porygon2 are great partners because they can switch out on a Fighting-type and Nidoqueen can switch in. Snorlax is also great for team support as it can take hits from special attackers, such as Zapdos, Rotom-H, and Chandelure, while maintaining offensive pressure and it has the ability to set up multiple Curses. Wish support is always welcome for Nidoqueen as it does not have reliable recovery, especially without Black Sludge; Togekiss and Umbreon are decent Wish users in the tier. If you aren't running Stealth Rock, Nidoqueen appreciates entry hazards, so any other support from Pokemon such as Bronzong and Roserade is welcomed.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Earth Power
move 3: Fire Blast / Ice Beam
move 4: Dragon Tail / Roar
item: Black Sludge
ability: Sheer Force
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 232 Def / 24 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With this set, Nidoqueen serves as one of the best counters to Fighting- and Bug-type Pokemon in the tier. Stealth Rock is the main move on the set and as a defensive Pokemon, it sets them up well. Even without investment, Earth Power is usually Nidoqueen's most reliable STAB, as it can hit other Pokemon pretty hard thanks to Sheer Force. Fire Blast is necessary to put a dent into Bronzing, who would otherwise wall this set. As another option, Ice Beam catches Flying- and Ground-types such as Flygon, Zapdos, Gligar, and Claydol off guard. The choice depends on your team's needs and what Pokemon your team struggles with more. In the last slot, Dragon Tail is usually better for Nidoqueen, as it can do some decent damage to Flygon who think that they can get a free switch. If you are really afraid of Substitute users such as Mismagius, go for Roar.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs on this set make Nidoqueen defensively oriented but also give it a little bit of Speed; these Speed EVs allow Nidoqueen to outspeed defensive Blastoise. Furthermore, don't ever consider running a Relaxed nature in conjunction with Dragon Tail, as the power drop is not worth being slower than Blastoise. A Bold nature increases your Defense without dropping Speed, so that is always the best choice. Black Sludge is the best choice for an item most of the time, but if you are really afraid of Trick, you can use Leftovers.</p>

<p>Bronzong is a great partner, using Levitate and solid defenses to take on Krookodile and Flygon. Specially bulky walls, such as Umbreon, Porygon2, and Snorlax, can take attacks from Zapdos, Rotom-H, and Chandelure with ease, and can lure in Fighting-type attacks for Nidoqueen. As Nidoqueen has no reliable recovery, Wish support extends its lifespan considerably; Togekiss and Umbreon have good type synergy with Nidoqueen and can reliably pass Wish.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Nidoqueen does have a few other options available. Thunderbolt can deal with bulky Water-types better, but Nidoqueen generally hits them hard enough with Earth Power or Sludge Wave. Super Fang gets an interesting note on the defensive set, as it could become a wall that can break stall, but it also has a hard time finding a moveslot. Nidoqueen also has a great physical movepool, including the elemental punches from BW2, but generally Sheer Force-boosted special attacks are more powerful. Nidoqueen could also run an effective Toxic Spikes set with similar EVs to the defensive set, but the abundance of Poison-types makes this not as reliable.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>In general, Nidoqueen has a difficult time with Pokemon with Earthquake, such as Rhyperior or Flygon, but such Pokemon must also watch out for Earth Power or Ice Beam, respectively. Bulky Water-types, such as Milotic, wall Nidoqueen and are able to strike with Scald or Hydro Pump. Suicune is similar to Milotic and can set up Calm Minds when Nidoqueen switches. Rotom-H can use Trick, Hidden Power Ice, or Overheat to take out or disable Nidoqueen accordingly, and can take Earth Power, Ice Beam, and Fire Blast with impunity. Weavile is able to hit Nidoqueen with a STAB Ice Punch, but it must watch out for Fire Blast. Snorlax also counters Nidoqueen fairly well and can Curse or hit back with Earthquake. Even Porygon2 tanks Nidoqueen's special attacks, including Focus Blast, and can Trace Sheer Force; this will provide Porygon2 an OHKO with Ice Beam. It can also use Recover and hit other things hard with Sheer Force. Finally, other hard hitting special attackers will generally bring Nidoqueen into at least yellow health with a neutral hit.</p>