[Overview]

<p>Meet Ninjask: a Pokemon that, in the same vein as Billy Ray Cyrus, enjoyed a few brief moments in the spotlight before fading into relative obscurity. Unfortunately for Ninjask, the BW reunion tour isn't exactly sold out; while a massive base 160 Speed stat is still incredible, the BW UU metagame contains many irksome additions for the cicada. Nonetheless, with access to Substitute, Swords Dance, and of course, Baton Pass, Ninjask's limited but useful movepool allows it to perform virtually the same role it always has. Although some of Ninjask's signature toys (namely Speed Boost) were distributed among the needy, so to speak, Ninjask still stands as a zippity user of Baton Pass, capable of bugging even the smartest of opposition when played correctly.</p>

[SET]
name: Baton Pass
move 1: Swords Dance
move 2: Baton Pass
move 3: Substitute
move 4: X-Scissor / Protect 
item: Focus Sash / Leftovers
nature: Adamant
evs: 248 HP / 192 Atk / 68 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>An old adage states, "If it ain't broke, don't fix it." Ninjask's absurd Speed allows it to set up on almost any Pokemon lacking Taunt. Swords Dance is vital to this set, as Speed Boost and Swords Dance work in conjunction to pass as many boosts to the next Pokemon as quickly as possible. Substitute is also an important move, as it allows Ninjask to attain more boosts in safety. Furthermore, passing a Substitute along with the boosts provided by Ninjask can often mean the difference between a swift victory and a wasted slot on the team. While Ninjask is not one to be sweeping, X-Scissor prevents it from becoming complete Taunt bait, and also may score a surprise kill if Ninjask can net a super effective hit. Protect is an option in the last slot, as it allows Ninjask to bypass Fake Out. While it does make Ninjask more vulnerable to Taunt in theory, it guarantees that Ninjask will be able to secure at least one Speed Boost and still Baton Pass to the next Pokemon in line safely.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is the primary item, as it allows Ninjask to live at least one hit and then Baton Pass any boosts it accquired. However, if you do not intend to ever lead with Ninjask, Leftovers could possibly see some use, as it ensures Ninjask will be able to safely switch into Stealth Rock twice; it is still generally inferior to Focus Sash. The listed EV spread gives Ninjask maximum longevity and Attack while still outspeeding max Speed base 120s, such as Sceptile. Alternatively, 112 Speed EVs allow Ninjask to beat max Speed base 125 foes, namely Weavile, and 156 Speed EVs allow Ninjask to beat max Speed 130 Pokemon, specifically Crobat, Jolteon, and Aerodactyl. If you opt to use Protect over X-Scissor, an Impish nature should be used and the EVs in Attack should be transferred to Defense.</p>

<p>Slower, more physically inclined sweepers that can benefit from both Speed Boost and Swords Dance are the best teammates. Rhyperior, Mamoswine, Azumarill, and Heracross are all fantastic candidates for this. Since Drought has been banned, Sunny Day could also be used in the last slot with the item Heat Rock. With a few Speed Boosts, Swords Dance, Sunny Day, and a Substitute, Victini becomes even scarier than before. Arcanine works in a similar way, but is generally inferior (though a Swords Dance-boosted ExtremeSpeed is pretty fearsome).</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Ninjask certainly has a dearth of options other than those listed. U-turn is an interesting move that completely contradicts the set, as Ninjask loses any boosts upon switching out. Ninjask receives STAB on Aerial Ace, but it is only better than X-Scissor situationally. Toxic could be employed to catch a bulkier Pokemon off guard as they switch in, but it struggles to find a place in the set. Hone Claws is almost always inferior to Swords Dance, and Final Gambit is a gimmicky option that has better users. Speaking of gimmicks, Ninjask could use a Mental Herb as a safeguard from Taunt, but since it can only benefit Ninjask once, it is really more of a minor annoyance to the opponent than anything.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ninjask's FireRed and LeafGreen Pokedex entry reads, "This Pokémon is so quick, it is said to be able to avoid any attack." Unfortunately for the little guy, this couldn't be further from the truth. Ninjask struggles to pass any boosts at all when facing anything with Taunt, and Froslass in particular is a real problem. Priority-wielding Pokemon, such as Ice Shard Weavile, can become a real threat if you do not play your cards right. Bulkier walls are not to be dealt with by Ninjask; rather, it should Baton Pass to an actual threat as soon as possible. Perhaps the easiest way to counter Ninjask is through simply negating all of its hard work entirely; any form of phazing can quickly eliminate all the boosts Ninjask has racked up. Lastly, Shell Smash and Baton Pass is, in most ways, a superior strategy that allows the user to render any boosts Ninjask can attain as rather unsubstantial. Perhaps one day Ninjask will give birth to a teen-pop sensation, at which point it will find its way into the limelight once more.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Ninjask gets Infiltrator from the Dream World, which bypasses Light Screen, Reflect, and Safeguard. Besides the fact that it is unreleased, Ninjask prides itself on passing Speed Boosts, making Infiltrator worse than useless.</p>