[Overview]

<p>Registeel arguably is the best out of the original three Regis. It hasn't changed much since its release but still is a solid check to numerous Pokemon in UU. Registeel is one of the best counters to offensive Roserade, Raikou, and non-Tinted Lens Yanmega with its spectacular base 150 in both defensive stats. It boasts 11 resistances and 1 immunity in exchange for 3 common weaknesses. Registeel faces competition from other Steel-types, however, including Bronzong, Cobalion, and Empoleon. To hinder Registeel even more, it lacks reliable recovery, making it able to be worn down easily. Its three weaknesses are also a big detriment, as they leave Registeel vulnerable to popular threats such as Victini and Heracross. Nevertheless, don't let these cons discourage you from using Registeel, as it is still a solid wall.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility
move 1: Stealth Rock
move 2: Thunder Wave / Toxic
move 3: Seismic Toss
move 4: Earthquake / Shadow Claw
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the most viable set that Registeel can run without being outclassed. Registeel is a sturdy wall, so it can usually live a hit and set up Stealth Rock without breaking a sweat. Thunder Wave is the more useful status option as it can aid your team and cripple sweepers such as Azelf, Mienshao, and Sharpedo. Toxic is still a viable option against defensive teams, as it can cripple other walls such as Cofagrigus, Porygon2, and Slowbro. Seismic Toss is an excellent attacking move for Registeel as its base 75 Attack prevents it doing heavy damage. Earthquake is the more reliable option to hit the ever-so-common Fire- and Electric-types in the tier, such as Darmantian, Chandelure, and Raikou, for super effective damage. You can also opt to use Shadow Claw to hit Ghost- and Psychic-types for super effective damage, including Azelf, Mismagius, and Xatu.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A physically defensive Registeel is not usually viable because UU is filled with physical Ground- and Fighting-type attacks. Registeel enjoys Wish support from Pokemon such as Umbreon and Togekiss, as it has no reliable recovery of its own. Pokemon like Gligar, Slowbro, and Zapdos have decent synergy with Registeel to take on Fire-, Ground-, and Fighting-types. Spinblockers, such as Sableye, Dusclops, and Cofagrigus, are good partners because they keep Stealth Rock on the opponent's side while covering Registeel's Fighting-type weakness; the latter also has access to Will-O-Wisp so Registeel can take physical hits better. Iron Head can be used in place of one of Registeel's attacking moves for a paraflinch strategy, but this is outclassed by Togekiss, which has Serene Grace. Finally, Ice Punch is an option to hit Ground- and Flying-types such as Flygon and Honchkrow for heavy damage.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>A mono-attacking set consisting of Curse, Rest, Sleep Talk, and Iron Head seems attractive, but due to Registeel's weaknesses, any Fighting-, Ground-, or Fire-type has no trouble taking it down, even after a boost. Furthermore, Steel is not a very good offensive type. A Gravity set with Zap Cannon, Focus Blast, and Flash Cannon could be usable, but due to Registeel's low Special Attack and Speed, it is not very viable. A Rain Dance support set could be used, as Registeel's massive defenses will almost always allow it to set up a Rain Dance, all while negating its Fire-type weakness. Aerial Ace is an option if you're desperate to hit Heracross, but it does not serve any other purpose. Counter and Magic Coat are usable to surprise the opponent, but generally Registeel prefers its other moves.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Despite Registeel's sky-high defenses, it is still reasonably easy to check and counter. Any common Fire-, Ground-, or Fighting-type, such as Darmanitan, Mienshao, and Rhyperior, can demolish Registeel with its STAB moves. Trick users can cripple Registeel with a Choice item, rendering it useless for the rest of the match. Sableye and support Mew can Taunt Registeel, preventing Stealth Rock or a status move, but must look out for Toxic on the switch. Xatu walls Registeel without Shadow Claw, as it can easily Roost off Seismic Toss damage and bounce back status and Stealth Rock. Bulky sweepers with Rest, such as Snorlax, Suicune, and Scrafty, set up on Registeel easily as it does little damage to them and Rest rids them of any status. Ghost-types with Substitute, such as Mismagius, can set up on Registeel without Shadow Claw and proceed to attack or set up with Nasty Plot or Calm Mind.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Clear Body is far superior to Light Metal, as it prevents Shaymin from lowering Registeel's Special Defense with Seed Flare. Furthermore, Light Metal is only useful against Pokemon that carry Low Kick, and it is incompatible with Seismic Toss, which is Registeel's most effective attacking option.</p>