[Overview]

<p>It is not difficult to see why Regirock has inherent appeal—its colossal Defense and its great base Special Defense, which is further boosted by sandstorm, give it excellent bulk. As a result of this superb ability to take hits as well as a lack of quadruple weaknesses, the rock golem becomes quite sturdy. Regirock also possesses an adequate base 100 Attack, providing it with a bit of a punch. Curse is Regirock's blessing; by using the move, Regirock fortifies its Defense while boosting its Attack; enough boosts can even let Regirock get past Pokemon such as Golurk and Machamp. However, Regirock's downfall is its lack of access to reliable recovery, outside of Rest. While Rest satisfies the golem's needs of status removal and recovery, it causes Regirock to become a sitting duck while asleep, even with the aid of Sleep Talk.</p>
 
[SET]
name: Mono-Attacker
move 1: Rock Slide / Stone Edge
move 2: Rest
move 3: Sleep Talk
move 4: Curse
item: Leftovers
nature: Careful
evs: 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 SpD 
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>The beauty of Regirock's best set is its simplicity: the aim of this set is to use Curse as many times as possible, Rest, and then sweep the opponent. Rock Slide and Stone Edge are the STAB moves of choice; the former has higher PP and accuracy, while the latter boasts higher Base Power. However, Stone Edge's PP issues are somewhat mitigated by Sleep Talk, which does not use PP for the move it executes. Rest bestows Regirock with its only form of recovery and allows it to get rid of any harmful status that could cut a sweep short. Sleep Talk makes Regirock less vulnerable while asleep; it also grants Regirock the ability to absorb sleep moves. Finally, Curse is the crux of the set, as may be evident. A phenomenal boosting move, it allows Regirock to boost both its Defense and its Attack while lowering its ignorable Speed. If the right Pokemon are eliminated or if Regirock is the last Pokemon remaining, the golem can turn itself into a game-winner with enough luck.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>The EVs maximize Regirock's Special Defense; the remaining point is placed in Attack. Support from Hippowdon grants Regirock the sandstorm it needs to boost its Special Defense. Without its aid, Regirock would take too much damage from super effective special attacks to be effective. Teammates that can take special Grass- and Water-type attacks, such as Roserade, Rotom-H, and Milotic, are highly appreciated. Roserade can also do Regirock a service by laying Toxic Spikes on the opponent's side of the field to make Regirock's sweeping job a little easier. Teammates that can take strong physical Fighting- and Ground-type attacks are also highly recommended. While Regirock can tank these attacks easily enough after a Curse or two, without any boosts even Regirock finds these attacks too hard to take. Therefore Pokemon such as Golurk, Dusclops, and Cresselia (though the lack of recovery in sandstorm for the latter is disappointing), make great teammates for Regirock.</p>
 
[Other Options]
 
<p>Regirock has a variety of colorful moves and items at its disposal, but cannot use many of them too effectively. A support set with Stealth Rock, Rest, Sleep Talk, and a Rock-type move forces Regirock to waste far too many moveslots to be efficient; Hippowdon is a better user of Stealth Rock in general. A Choice Band set with Stone Edge, Hammer Arm, Earthquake, and a filler move is usable, but seems inferior compared to Rhyperior; a Rock Polish set faces the same issue. Ice Punch can be used to hit Ground-types super effectively, especially Donphan and Hippowdon. Toxic fits onto any Pokemon, incapacitating unwanted counters by putting a timer on their existence; Thunder Wave allows Regirock to support its teammates by slowing down the opposition. Lastly, Gravity is generally a poor move, but does pair well with Stone Edge and DynamicPunch.</p>
 
[Checks and Counters]
 
<p>Regirock fears all types of phazing moves; Roar, Dragon Tail, and Whirlwind all force it to lose any boosts it has accumulated unless Regirock is the last Pokemon left standing; Suicune, Donphan, Blastoise, Hippowdon, and Milotic, among others, are all common users of these moves. Strong super effective moves can end Regirock's life prematurely. Shaymin's Seed Flare and Roserade's Leaf Storm leave great dents in Regirock or outright OHKO it. Machamp must be lucky to win against Regirock; if it gets enough confusion, Regirock will lose, but Machamp cannot break through otherwise. Taunt from Pokemon such as Mew and Sableye makes Regirock virtually useless, unable to heal itself or set up; the same Pokemon can also burn Regirock with Will-O-Wisp. Finally, Quagsire is a full stop to all Regirock that do not wield Toxic because its ability, Unaware, ignores Regirock's boosts.</p>
 
[Unreleased]
 
<p>Sturdy is a good ability, but Regirock already packs formidable defenses; Clear Body is the preferred ability by default. In addition, Clear Body allows Regirock to avoid Special Defense drops from damaging moves like Shadow Ball and Energy Ball.</p>