[Overview]

<p>Well, this is perhaps one of Game Freak's greatest mistakes, and it has caused Rotom-S to become a laughing stock for all competitive Pokemon players. A Flying-type... with Levitate. Aside from Rotom-S's obvious flaws (a completely wasted ability anyone?), it is not actually that bad when equipped with a Choice Scarf, and it can take on a the role of a Zapdos with an interesting STAB move in Air Slash. Rotom-S can act as both a an effective revenge killer, or it can also&mdash;with some success&mdash;utilize a Choice Specs to deal out some respectable damage. Rotom-S's main downfall, though, is that it is almost completely outclassed by its brothers&mdash;Rotom-H, Rotom-F, Rotom-C, and arguably regular Rotom, all of which have better secondary STAB moves to work with. Overall, if you're using a Choice set, or, if you're feeling crazy and seriously want to abuse a 16x Ground immunity when Baton Passed Magnet Rise and when holding an Air Balloon, Rotom-S will serve you well.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice
move 1: Air Slash
move 2: Volt Switch / Thunderbolt
move 3: Hidden Power Grass
move 4: Trick
item: Choice Scarf / Choice Specs
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the only set that Rotom-S can use effectively that isn't completely outclassed by any of the other Rotom Appliances. With a Choice Scarf around its neck, Rotom-S is able to outspeed various offensive Pokemon, including, but not limited to, Azelf, Mismagius, and Victini, and proceed to finish them off with Air Slash or Volt Switch. This set is also a great scout, although Rotom-C is probably better at doing this specific task, as it can scare away Ground-types with its STAB Leaf Storm. Rotom-S can only rely on a meager Air Slash, which means Ground-types can switch in with little risk. For this reason, Hidden Power Grass is an excellent auxiliary attack, and Rotom-S can act as a good lure to Pokemon such as Rhyperior; it is a sure 2HKO on Rhyperior with a Choice Specs.</p>

<p>The last move on the set, Trick, is used for taking out any would-be counter. Rotom-S can effectively lure out and KO bulky Ground-types, and Trick is able to destroy another potential counter. After this, Rotom-S's teammates should be able to take advantage of the situation, and prepare for a sweep. For example, with Rhyperior removed, and a special wall Tricked, Houndoom will have a much easier time sweeping, as its main counters will have been removed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>There isn't much else to say about this set; it does exactly what it says on the tin. You can choose to alter it slightly, though. Thunderbolt can be chosen over Volt Switch, as it does grant extra power, which helps when revenge killing Pokemon such as Azelf, or causing more damage when using a Choice Scarf. Volt Switch is preferred, though, as it tends to lure in Ground-types more, as nobody wants to let Rotom-S bring in a Pokemon for free. Rotom-S can then proceed to do great damage with Hidden Power Grass. Talking of Hidden Power, many other variants can be used, with Hidden Power Ice being one of the best choices. Unfortunately, Hidden Power Ice does not hit Gastrodon and Quagsire super effectively, both of which are dead ends for Rotom-S, which is why Hidden Power Grass is the preferred option. Pain Split can be quite effective, and Rotom-S will almost always be fully recovered if a Pokemon with high HP like Snorlax switches into it, which is quite a common occurrence. Finally, Rotom-S can at times make use of a status move, but Trick is usually just as, if not more so, crippling.</p>

<p>Teammates for Rotom-S include ones that can work well once Ground-types are removed, as stated before. Houndoom is exceptionally good with the absence of Rhyperior, and it also appreciates special walls being Tricked. Victini is much in the same boat, along with Magmortar; all Fire-types appreciate Rotom-S's help. Ground-types, ironically, are good teammates for Rotom-S too, since they can switch in on the Rock-type attacks that are so commonly directed at it. Grass-types can give specially defensive variants of Rhyperior a hard time, since Hidden Power Grass does not do enough to them, unless Rotom-S is using Choice Specs. Shaymin can switch in all day long against the aforementioned Pokemon, and can launch off STAB Seed Flares.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>In terms of other options, Rotom-S does not have much to boast. A paraflinch set, with Pain Split, Air Slash, Thunder Wave, and Thunderbolt could possibly be effective, although it is walled hard by Ground-types. Rotom-S could also use a SubCharge set, as Air Slash has no negative effects, unlike the poor accuracy of Blizzard and the crippling Special Attack reduction of Leaf Storm and Overheat. Toxic can be used on any set, as it will cripple any common switch-in to Rotom-S. Finally, a defensive set could be effective, but Zapdos does this better, thanks to its better defenses, access to Roost, and the ability to use moves like Heat Wave to deal with threats such as Escavalier.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Rotom-S is truly hampered by Ground-types, but they must watch out for Hidden Power Grass. Rhyperior is the best option, as it can proceed to smash Rotom-S with Stone Edge. Flygon is another effective counter, as it is neutral to Hidden Power Grass, and it can scout out incoming switches with U-turn. It must beware of Choice Specs Air Slashes, though. Pokemon that boast huge Special Defense stats can wall Rotom-S without difficulty, although they must beware of Trick. Finally, beware of Air Slash&mdash;it always seems to flinch at the worst times...</p>