[Overview]

<p>Having been considered one of the best sweepers in existence two generations in a row is no small feat, and although Suicune has now fallen into UU, it can still hold its own in this environment. Its pure Water typing is amazing, as it gives it few weaknesses and a very wide range of neutral coverage with its STAB moves. Its stats are just right for it to do virtually anything it wants, from sweeping to being one of the sturdiest walls in the game. Since it possesses such an array of support moves, such as Calm Mind and Roar, it's also a great team player. However, its not all peaches for Suicune, as many of its greatest enemies happen to be some of the most used Pokemon in the tier, including Roserade, Raikou, and Zapdos, which makes it difficult for Suicune to truly shine. Fret not, as despite these hinderances, Suicune is sure to leave its mark in any battle it takes part in.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive
move 1: Hydro Pump / Surf
move 2: Calm Mind
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Hidden Power Electric
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
nature: Timid / Modest
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Suicune's stats almost scream out "wall", the most effective role it can play is that of a bulky sweeper. Its tremendous natural bulk not only allows Suicune to set up rather easily, but also take a couple of hits as it dishes out its own, which usually leads to it KOing a couple Pokemon before going down itself. The choice between Hydro Pump and Surf is the classic "power vs. accuracy" conundrum, as while Surf has perfect accuracy and more PP, the power drop is quite noticeable, especially against bulkier foes such as Porygon2. Calm Mind is Suicune's only way of powering up, boosting both its Special Attack and Special Defense simultaneously, making it a double-edged threat. Ice Beam gives it coverage on the Grass-types which resist its STAB moves, such as Shaymin and Roserade, while Hidden Power Electric covers opposing Water-types, such as Empoleon and Milotic.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs maximize Suicune's offensive potential and prevent Porygon2 and Porygon-Z from receiving a beneficial boost from Download as they come in. A Timid nature is preferred to ensure Suicune always outruns enemy Chandelure and Togekiss, as well as Speed ties with Heracross and Nidoking. Keep in mind, however, that the former two rarely run a Speed-boosting nature and the latter two have a 50% chance to outrun it anyway, so a Modest nature is more than viable. Leftovers is the primary item pick here because it has excellent synergy with Suicune's natural bulk and prevents it from becoming worn down by residual damage too quickly. The power boost that Life Orb provides is very substantial, however, and hence should be considered if your team has a way of nullifying sources of residual damage. An alternative EV spread that focuses on bulk rather than Speed of 208 HP / 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 44 Spe, which allows Suicune to outrun 0 Speed Roserade, is also viable, but at times you will find yourself missing the Speed, especially against bulky offensive teams that employ Pokemon such as Choice Band Heracross.</p>

<p>This set absolutely hates Toxic Spikes and loves Spikes support, making Spikes Roserade a good partner, due to its ability to absorb Toxic Spikes upon entry and being able to lay down its own hazards. In order to avoid having Suicune take too many strong hits before it gets the chance to set up, it would be wise to pair it with a secondary Water-type; preferably one that can weaken opposing Water-type counters to ease Suicune's sweep. This makes Choice Specs Kingdra a great offensive partner, as it can soften Suicune's counters and come in on strong attacks that Suicune typically wants to avoid early game, such as Darmanitan's Flare Blitz. Offensive Slowbro performs similarly, but its weakness to U-turn makes it a bit less appealing, despite having access to Regenerator.</p>

[SET]
name: CroCune
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Rest
move 3: Sleep Talk
move 4: Scald
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Ever since its inception during the ADV era, Calm Mind + RestTalk Suicune has remained one of the most popular sets in the entire game. However, the main reason why this set is less viable than it has been in the past is the change in Sleep mechanics that happened during the generational transition. This change, which forces it to stay in for three turns straight if it ever wants to wake up from its nap, has essentially taken most of Suicune's utility away, as it can no longer be used as an effective defensive pivot in the early-to-mid stages of the game. However, CroCune, as this set is affectionately known as, is still one of the more difficult late-game sweepers to deal with, as its tremendous bulk and ability to steadily boost its stats through Calm Mind, make it nigh-impossible to 3HKO. Scald is the primary STAB move for this set due to its handy 30% burn rate, making it even harder to break Suicune.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Heal Bell or Aromatherapy support gives this set back most of its early-to-mid-game defensive utility, as it can now use Rest and switch out more freely. Toxic Spikes also greatly improve the effectiveness of this set, as they prevent opposing Calm Mind users, such as Raikou, from setting up alongside it. Roserade proves to be a very effective teammate in this regard, as it has access to both Toxic Spikes and Aromatherapy, as well as fantastic defensive synergy with Suicune. If you decide to provide said Toxic Spikes support, a Pokemon who can take out opposing grounded Poison-types and ensure the entry hazards aren't absorbed may also be a worthwhile investment. Weavile all but guarantees the removal of opposing Roserade with its strong Pursuit and can threaten Nidoking and Nidoqueen with Ice Punch. In addition, if you decide to go this route, you may want to consider using Surf over Scald for the added power and to avoid status interference.</p>

[SET]
name: RestTalk
move 1: Rest
move 2: Sleep Talk
move 3: Scald
move 4: Roar
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>As Suicune is one of the bulkiest Pokemon in existence, it's no surprise that despite the change in sleep mechanics that BW brought with it, it is still able to pull off a classic RestTalk set. Rest is Suicune's only method of recovering HP outside of Leftovers and passed on Wishes. The main drawback here is that in order to use Rest effectively, Suicune needs to be either able to stay in for three turns straight, allowing it to wake up and Rest again, or take little-to-no damage before switching out. Otherwise, damage will build up too quickly and Suicune will faint before accomplishing anything. Luckily, Suicune has all the right tools to make this set work: tremendous bulk, Scald, and access to Roar. Scald is a very good move on defensive Water-types such as this one, as it gives them a STAB move with nice, consistent damage that also has a very nice side effect which helps spread status around the opponent's team. Roar prevents Suicune from being set up on and allows it to take advantage of entry hazards placed by its teammates. Sleep Talk ties the set together by nearly ensuring Suicune doesn't become a sitting duck for the two turns it is asleep.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Due to the very specific role this set plays on a team, it is recommended you stick to the given moves. However, if you find that there is too much status interference on your team, feel free to use Surf over Scald. In order to work properly, this set absolutely requires Spikes support, and due to its amazing defensive synergy with Suicune, Roserade stands out as the best choice to lay them down. Heal Bell / Aromatherapy support is very much appreciated so that Suicune doesn't get stuck being asleep if it's forced out at low HP. Roserade can provide this as well, but since it suffers from a bad case of four-moveslot syndrome, you may want to consider Togekiss, who also beats Shaymin and Roserade, two of Suicune's worst enemies. You'll also need something that can beat Raikou and Zapdos, so special walls such as Snorlax and Umbreon make good partners.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Suicune's movepool is quite barren, but there are a few moves which have not been covered above and could be worth consideration if your team is in need of such support; namely Reflect, Toxic, and Protect. A classic Substitute + Calm Mind set with a STAB move and either Ice Beam or Hidden Power Electric for coverage can also work, but since Suicune relies so much on its HP to take hits, this could prove counterproductive. In a similar vein, a Calm Mind + Roar set can be used to set up alongside opposing stat-boosters and Roar them away once you have accumulated a few boosts yourself. Suicune may also employ Choice Scarf and Choice Specs fairly effectively, but these sets are largely outclassed by other Pokemon with higher Speed, better coverage, or more power.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Suicune is difficult to beat 1-on-1 due to its awesome bulk and respectable offensive stats, but it can be done. Roserade and Shaymin are the best counters, as they are bulky enough to take Ice Beams, have Natural Cure to shrug off burns from Scald, and can hit back really hard with their STAB moves. Rotom-C also does well and commonly has Trick to cripple defensive sets, but it cares more about a Scald burn. Snorlax can check the offensive set pretty well, but it does not like getting burned at all. Zapdos and Raikou also dislike getting burned, but don't mind it as much due to being special attackers, and can hit Suicune hard with Thunderbolt. Milotic can effectively shut down most sets with Haze + Recover and cripple Suicune with Toxic. Kingdra switches in with little trouble and proceeds to set up or fire off Draco Meteors. Although, if its a physical attacker, it will need to be a Lum or Chesto Berry variant. Hitting Suicune hard with Pokemon such as Choice Band Escavalier before it can set up too any Calm Minds usually works well too.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Suicune's Dream World ability is Water Absorb, an ability which gives Suicune quite a bit more utility and should therefore be prioritized over Pressure on almost every set.</p>