[Overview]

<p>Throh is pretty much the polar opposite of Sawk. Throh is bulkier, sitting at 120 / 85 / 85 defensive stats, making him the bulkiest Fighting-type of all time. Taking advantage of his natural bulk, Throh has a pretty easy time setting up with Bulk Up, making him even more bulky. Throh isn't weak offensively either, with a base Attack stat of 100, meaning he can hit pretty hard with some boosts. Throh's movepool is pretty wide, granting him good coverage with his moves. While Throh has his strengths, he is, like most bulky Pokemon, pretty slow, and finding time setting up can be hard. However, with the right team support, Throh can be a pretty hard Pokemon to take down.</p>

[SET]
name: Bulk Up
move 1: Bulk Up
move 2: Circle Throw / Storm Throw
move 3: Payback / Stone Edge
move 4: Taunt / Rest
item: Leftovers
ability: Guts
nature: Careful
evs: 212 HP / 252 SpD / 44 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Bulk Up, Throh can boost his Attack and Defense stat, becoming a hard-hitting Pokemon that's tough to take down. Circle Throw works like Dragon Tail, forcing your opponent to switch, setting Throh apart from other Fighting-type sweepers and allowing you to focus on his bulk. Storm Throw can also be used as your STAB move, as it is Throh's most powerful Fighting-type move besides Superpower. Payback hits Ghost-types that are immune to Circle Throw, as well as Psychic-types, for super effective damage. Stone Edge can also be used to hit Flying-type Pokemon hard, while still hitting Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon for respectable damage. Taunt stops other Pokemon from setting up while Throh is doing the same, as well as preventing status (although status isn't much of a problem with Guts powering up his Attack stat). Rest restores Throh's health back to normal, as even attacks that deal little damage will eventually wear Throh down.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Brick Break, Superpower, and Low Sweep can be used over Circle Throw and Storm Throw, all serving different purposes, if it should be needed for your team. Brick Break only does slightly less damage than Storm Throw, but breaks screens and hits the rare Shell Armor and Battle Armor Pokemon harder. Low Sweep lowers the opponent's Pokemon's Speed stat, which can be useful for your other Pokemon, and Superpower just hits really hard with Bulk Up canceling out the stat drops. Substitute can be used as well, as Throh is able to make 101 HP Substitutes, making Dusclops and other Seismic Toss users unable to break them. If you opt for that, move 8 EVs from Defense to HP. Inner Focus can also be used over Guts to protect Throh from being flinched by Togekiss's Air Slash.</p>

<p>The Special Defense EVs and Careful nature make Throh as bulky as possible on the special side while the Speed EVs help Throh to move before a few uninvested walls. The remaining EVs are put into HP so that Throh takes hits easier. Screen support can make it easier for Throh to set up. Uxie and other Psychic-types make excellent partners as they resist Psychic-type moves directed at Throh. Uxie can also set up Stealth Rock alongside screens. Entry hazards can prevent your opponent from switching around too much while Throh is setting up, and helps rack up even more damage in combination with Circle Throw. Drapion in particular is a useful teammate for its ability to set up Toxic Spikes. Both of them resist Psychic-type moves directed at Throh. Hard-hitting Flying- and Psychic-types can be a lot of trouble for Throh, so Electric-type Pokemon such as Zapdos and Raikou, or Dark-type Pokemon such as Drapion and Weavile, help a lot. Zapdos and Raikou can take Flying-type moves and hit back with powerful Electric-type attacks. Drapion and Weavile are immune to Psychic-type moves, and can threaten with Pursuit.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Throh has access to several moves that he can use. Body Slam can be used to paralyze the opponent. Poison Jab can be used to hit Celebi and other bulky Grass-types, but Payback already hits Celebi much harder. Throh can make use of Toxic over Taunt or Rest to rack up even more damage if you don't already have Toxic support on your team. Throh also has access to Earthquake and Rock Slide but they are inferior to the listed moves. With his natural bulk, he can also support his team with Rain Dance or Sunny Day, but there are many Pokemon that do this better.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Hard hitting Psychic- and Flying-types that have access to Taunt, such as Azelf and Crobat, can stop Throh in his tracks and KO him with their super effective STAB moves, but need to watch out for Payback and Stone Edge respectively. Togekiss can flinch its way to victory with a combination of Air Slash and Thunder Wave, while Throh is unable to do much back. However, inflicting Throh with status is a high-risk, high-reward strategy, as Throh often has Guts as his ability. Some Throh might also have Inner Focus, so you must be certain about which ability he has. Cofagrigus, with its high Defense stat, can easily set up Calm Mind on Throh, taking minimum damage from his attacks. Cresselia can do the same thing, and KO him in return with her STAB Psychic-type moves.</p>