[Overview]

<p>Whimsicott is indeed special. It has access to the ability Prankster, as well as a plethora of support moves with which to take advantage of, such as Encore, Leech Seed, Substitute, Taunt, and Stun Spore. This makes Whimsicott an excellent support Pokemon, and an annoying one on top of that. With Prankster, Whimsicott doesn't need to invest any EVs in its Speed and can focus its EV investment on its bulk, making it even more of a pain to take down. While Whimsicott's HP stat can let it down sometimes, and it has no offensive presence at all, those factors don't really matter. Whimsicott is a great Pokemon in UU, and, trust me, it will be one of the most fun Pokemon you will ever use.</p>

[SET]
name: Prankster
move 1: Encore
move 2: Leech Seed
move 3: Substitute / U-turn
move 4: Taunt / Stun Spore
item: Leftovers
ability: Prankster
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD
 
[SET COMMENTS]
 
<p>The standard Whimsicott set. Encore is a great move on Whimsicott, and helps both Whimsicott and its teammates set up. Leech Seed in combination with Substitute is a lethal tactic, making Whimsicott hard to take down if you play it right. Taunt is a great move in the last slot, keeping status at bay as well as preventing other Pokemon from setting up. U-turn can help Whimsicott escape tricky situations or enable it to scout, while Stun Spore can paralyze the opponent, opening up a variety of opportunities for Whimsicott's teammates.</p>
 
[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
 
<p>Whimsicott can also support its teammates with Sunny Day or Trick Room, the former virtually guaranteed thanks to Prankster. Toxic can help to wear down the opponent in combination with Leech Seed, while GrassWhistle can put the opponent to sleep. GrassWhistle's shaky accuracy makes it a risky move to use though. Light Screen and Safeguard can help Whimsicott's teammates that set up by boosting their Special Defense and preventing status.</p>
 
<p>Set-up sweepers such as Mismagius, Kingdra, and Azelf benefit from Encore, Stun Spore, and Taunt: Encore can lock the opponent into a resisted move, Stun Spore lowers the opponent's Speed stat, and Taunt prevents the opponent from using status moves and setting up itself. Alternatively, Heracross is an example of a slow sweeper that greatly benefits from Stun Spore lowering the opponent's Speed. Leech Seed keeps the aforementioned Pokemon healthy while they set up, and also helps in stalling the opponent. Furthermore, teammates that can take care of Grass-types that might stand in Whimsicott's way are appreciated. Arcanine, Heracross, and Moltres comes to mind, as they resist Grass-type moves and hit back hard with their STAB moves. Pokemon that can set up entry hazards, such as Scolipede or Nidoqueen, pairs well with Whimsicott as it forces a lot of switches.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Whimsicott has several other support moves at its disposal that can be useful in some way. Cotton Spore, Tickle, Fake Tears, Memento, and Charm can help Whimsicott's teammates deal with certain Pokemon or just force switches. Tailwind can be used to boost the Speed stat of Whimsicott's team for four turns, possibly allowing an end-game sweep. Whimsicott can also use Cotton Guard to boost its own Defense stat, making it ridiculously hard to take down. Worry Seed is a gimmicky option, but can really pay off against Pokemon dependant on their abilities, such as Tinted Lens Yanmega or Magic Guard Alakazam. Switcheroo in combination with Lagging Tail or Iron Ball is also an option, but Switcheroo is illegal with Encore and Stun Spore already slows down the opponent, making Switcheroo the less favorable option. Giga Drain is Whimsicott's best form of offense; use a Bold nature if you opt for it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Whimsicott's most crucial moment is when it's at low health. This means it can't protect itself with Substitute if the opposing Pokemon doesn't care about Encore and Taunt. In fact, Whimsicott doesn't even have to be at low health if the opponent doesn't care about Whimicott's moves, as it can just keep spamming a powerful move until Whimsicott goes down. Heracross falls into this category thanks to STAB Megahorn; worse, Guts variants are powered up by Stun Spore. In general, hard hitting attackers will easily take Whimsicott down, as Leech Seed and Leftovers will otherwise quickly restore Whimsicott's health. Another way of countering Whimsicott is to break its Substitute with a U-turn and then bring in a Pokemon that can OHKO it. Grass-types don't care about Leech Seed, and Roserade and Shaymin laugh off Stun Spore thanks to Natural Cure and can KO Whimsicott with Sludge Bomb and Air Slash, respectively. Faster Whimsicott can outspeed and Taunt, leaving the slower one helpless.</p>