[Overview]

<p>Xatu mainly sees use because of the rare ability Magic Bounce, which gives it a useful role to bounce back entry hazards and status. Xatu also has a very useful support movepool, with tools such as Thunder Wave and Reflect to support its team. Its access to reliable recovery and U-turn also allow it to do its job more effectively, as it can prevent hazards, but also not lose momentum in the match. However, Xatu's typing is a detriment against it defensively, and leaves it vulnerable to prominent entry hazard setters such as Froslass and Rhyperior. Its weakness to Stealth Rock also means that it may also need Rapid Spin support to function at its fullest. Xatu is also fairly one-dimensional, and can be easy to play around. As long as you know how to alleviate Xatu's faults, it can prove a useful member of your team.</p>

[SET]
name: Support
move 1: Thunder Wave / Toxic
move 2: Roost 
move 3: U-turn
move 4: Psychic / Night Shade 
item: Leftovers
ability: Magic Bounce
nature: Calm / Careful 
evs: 252 HP / 240 SpD / 16 Spe 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Xatu's only viable set is meant to support its team to the fullest by blocking hazards and crippling certain threats. Thunder Wave and Toxic both cripple these threats, with Thunder Wave slowing offensive threats such as Heracross and other Choice Scarf users down, and Toxic slowly eating away at the health of bulky Pokemon such as Slowbro and Milotic. Roost restores Xatu's rather low HP, increasing its staying power immensely. U-turn works as a great scouting move that allows you to bring a counter in against opposing threats and create momentum for your team. Psychic provides a STAB attack and can keep Fighting-types at bay, but Night Shade deals 100 points of damage every turn, usually breaking enemy Substitutes. Both are fairly reliable, but should be used with their corresponding nature.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>The EV spread allows Xatu to outspeed Modest Empoleon, allowing it to Roost before getting hit by Ice Beam, all while maintaining its special bulk. Reflect or Light Screen can also be used to help your team tank hits from either physical or special attacks, but requires Xatu to drop one of its key support moves, reducing their usability. Wish can be used over Roost in order to pass semi-reliable recovery to allies while maintaining self-healing, but won't be passing much due to Xatu's low HP stat, and in order for Xatu to reliably heal itself, it must run Protect as well.</p>

<p>Pokemon that can remove threats such as Zapdos and Rhyperior, for example Flygon and Swampert, make good teammates for Xatu, as they allow Xatu to come in more often and not worry about taking powerful STAB attacks. Pokemon that appreciate not having to worry about entry hazards, such as Yanmega or Darmanitan, also make good teammates for Xatu, as they can pull off sweeps without needlessly losing their HP.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Psyshock / Psychic
move 2: Grass Knot
move 3: Heat Wave
move 4: Roost
item: Life Orb
ability: Magic Bounce
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 32 HP / 252 SpA / 8 SpD / 216 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Xatu's other sets focus on using its typing and Magic Bounce defensively, this set uses its decent Special Attack and movepool to defeat nearly every common entry hazard setter in the tier. This set functions much better on offensive teams, as it does not ruin momentum like Blastoise and Hitmontop do and can pose a threat itself. Psyshock functions as Xatu's primary STAB move, as it can defeat many common hazard setters, such as Nidoqueen and Qwilfish. If using a Modest nature, it is the preferred move over Psychic due to its ability to 2HKO offensive Snorlax after Stealth Rock. However, if using a Timid nature, Psychic is the preferred option, as it will always OHKO standard Nidoqueen, unlike Psyshock. Grass Knot is a key move on this set, as it allows Xatu to defeat the two best Stealth Rock setters in the tier: Rhyperior and Swampert. Heat Wave is used for the purpose of severely denting Steel-types as well as OHKOing on the switch. In fact, it is powerful enough to 2HKO Bronzong and 3HKO Registeel 100% of the time. Finally, Roost is used to mitigate Life Orb recoil and potentially Stealth Rock damage that Xatu has taken.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Using the given EV spread, Xatu is able to outspeed everything up to maximum Speed base 90s. The choice between a Modest and a Timid nature depends on your personal preference. If outspeeding threats such as Timid Nidoking, Jolly Heracross, and Timid Roserade is essential, then a Timid nature is preferred. If 2HKOing Snorlax after Stealth Rock is mandatory, then a Modest nature takes precedence. U-turn is an option on this set, as it allows Xatu to escape from special walls such as Porygon2 and Umbreon and bring in a Fighting-type partner. However, using U-turn forces Xatu to give up one of its coverage moves or Roost, all of which are vital to this set's success.</p>

<p>This set struggles against Empoleon, as it is not 2HKOed by Heat Wave and can 2HKO Xatu at worst with Ice Beam. This set also struggles against certain special walls such as Porygon2 and Umbreon due to Xatu's limited power, as well as common offensive Pokemon such as Zapdos. Therefore, Xatu's best partners are divided into two groups: Pokemon that can deal with these threats, and offensive Pokemon that benefit from the prevention of Stealth Rock. Rhyperior and Swampert can both check offensive Pokemon such as Zapdos, Victini, and Raikou. Offensive Pokemon that benefit from the prevention of Stealth Rock include Yanmega, Victini, Darmanitan, Zapdos, Weavile, and Chandelure. Darmanitan, Zapdos, and Victini in particular benefit from Xatu's ability to lure and defeat Rhyperior and Swampert with Grass Knot.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Protect may be used alongside Roost for semi-stalling and HP recovery, but forces Xatu to drop one of its moves, reducing its viability. Grass Knot can be used to catch Rhyperior and Swampert, common switch-ins to Xatu, off guard and deal the pair some heavy damage. However, once those two are off the field, Grass Knot becomes a waste of a moveslot. Heat Wave and Giga Drain provide decent offensive coverage, but Xatu isn't typically designed for offense, a task better left to Pokemon such as Azelf, who has similar coverage and has better Special Attack and Speed stats. A Calm Mind set utilizing Calm Mind, Stored Power, Roost, and Hidden Power Fighting is possible, as it increases Xatu's two best stats. Xatu can usually find the time to set it up, but lacks solid Defense and Speed stats to make it worthwhile. A Choice set can be used with either Choice Scarf or Choice Specs, as it can be used to somewhat damage an opponent or hinder a setup Pokemon via Trick, but is outclassed by stronger and faster Pokemon such as Azelf, Raikou, and Chandelure.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Despite preventing it from being placed on your side of the field, Stealth Rock really hurts Xatu's staying power, removing 25% of its health per switch-in, forcing Xatu to worry more about recovering its health rather than supporting its teammates. Strong Choice item users such as Darmanitan and Heracross, pose dangers to Xatu, as they threaten with powerful STAB moves in Flare Blitz and Megahorn, respectively. Every Electric-type Pokemon in the UU tier — Zapdos, Raikou, and Rotom-H — can come in on basically anything but Thunder Wave or Toxic and heavily threaten Xatu with STAB Thunderbolt. Setup sweepers that are immune to or have a way to cure themselves from the effects of Thunder Wave or Toxic, such as Scrafty or Togekiss, can set up on Xatu and threaten it with powerful attacks. Rhyperior carries Stealth Rock but doesn't allow Xatu to switch in for free thanks to Rock Blast. Krookodile can trap Xatu with Pursuit and is immune to both Thunder Wave and Psychic. Krookodile can also threaten it with Crunch and Stone Edge if need be. Finally, Zoroark can lure Xatu by posing as an entry hazard setter thanks to Illusion and set up a Nasty Plot on Xatu, leaving it room to KO with Dark Pulse.</p>