[Overview]

<p>Donphan goes into the DW metagame relatively unchanged from previous generations: its access to both Rapid Spin and Stealth Rock, coupled with an excellent base 120 Defense and an improved Sturdy, give it a niche over other spinners and bulky Ground-types, such as Gliscor, Excadrill, and Hippowdon. Donphan also possesses an impressive base 120 Attack, backed by a small, but precise, physical movepool, the highlights of which are Earthquake, Head Smash, Stone Edge, Ice Shard and Fire Fang. All in all, these traits let Donphan dish out powerful hits as well as take them. While Donphan's poor Speed and Special Defense stats, in addition to its lack of reliable recovery, limit its ability to wall several prominent threats, such as Genesect and Keldeo, Donphan remains one of the best utility Pokemon in the DW metagame.</p>

[SET]
name: Defensive Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Stealth Rock
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: Toxic
item: Leftovers
ability: Sturdy
nature: Impish
evs: 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set capitalizes on Donphan's excellent physical bulk and defensive typing to reliably clear hazards off your side of the field, as well as lay Stealth Rock down. Donphan's niche over a lot of the other Stealth Rock users is that it can safely set up Stealth Rock as a lead without worrying about being OHKOed thanks to Sturdy. Earthquake hits hard thanks to Donphan’s high Attack stat, and prevents Donphan from being Taunt bait. Toxic is Donphan's best option against physically defensive Jellicent looking to block Rapid Spin, as an uninvested Earthquake doesn't even 3HKO it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are standard physically defensive fare, while 4 Speed EVs let Donphan outspeed uninvested Chansey, Hippowdon, and Tangrowth. Roar is useful for racking up Stealth Rock damage on the opponent, as well as stopping Excadrill and Terrakion from utilizing Air Balloon to set up on Donphan. Knock Off can strip Jellicent of its Leftovers, making it easier to wear down. As Gliscor is a common switch-in to Donphan, Knock Off can also take Gliscor's Toxic Orb away from it before it activates, which makes Gliscor significantly less dangerous. Ice Shard is an effective priority move that is helpful in taking down Thundurus and Dragonite. However, an uninvested Ice Shard is extremely weak due to its low Base Power and the fact that it's not boosted by STAB, so it has little use in general.</p>

<p>Teammates that benefit from Donphan's support characteristics are obvious choices. Donphan is a great fit on sun teams, as it can remove Stealth Rock for Pokemon such as Ninetales and Volcarona, and also lay hazards to assist a sweep. Donphan despises Ghost-types such as Jellicent and Gengar, as uninvested attacks won't be enough to deal with them, leaving them free to block Rapid Spin. Additionally, if Chandelure switches in on Rapid Spin, Donphan is done for as Chandelure traps, outspeeds, and can OHKO it with Fire Blast. A Pursuit user is the best way of dealing with the aforementioned Ghost-types: Choice Scarf Tyranitar can trap and OHKO Jellicent, Chandelure, and Gengar, but has to be careful to not switch into Scald, which might burn, or a super effective Hidden Power Fighting or Focus Blast.</p>

<p>Gliscor completely shuts down defensive Donphan; Donphan can't even touch Gliscor as it is immune to Earthquake, while Poison Heal renders it immune to Toxic. Gliscor can then set up a Swords Dance or Substitute to threaten the rest of your team. Rotom-W can check Gliscor, while Donphan's Rapid Spin support provides it with more opportunities to switch in. Cleric support can prove useful for Donphan. While Donphan is immune to Thunder Wave, burn or Toxic will cause it major problems due to its reliance on physical attacks and lack of reliable recovery. Blissey is a great cleric to use alongside Donphan as she can not only sponge strong special attacks aimed at Donphan, but also supply Donphan with Wish support to help with its lack of reliable recovery.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Rapid Spin
move 1: Rapid Spin
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Ice Shard / Fire Fang
move 4: Stone Edge / Head Smash
item: Leftovers
ability: Sturdy
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set utilizes Donphan's stellar base 120 Attack to force switches and KO Ghost-types, allowing it to use Rapid Spin more freely. Rapid Spin is a staple on any Donphan set, as it differentiates Donphan from Hippowdon. STAB Earthquake serves as Donphan's primary attack, which even 2HKOes specially defensive variants of Jellicent. Unlike the defensive set, this set's Ice Shard is strong enough to finish off foes such as Landorus, Salamence, and Garchomp. Fire Fang 2HKOes Gengar without any drawbacks, as well as Ferrothorn and Forretress in sun, preventing them from laying hazards. Stone Edge, in addition to cleanly 2HKOing Gengar, also forms the superb EdgeQuake coverage. Head Smash provides the same coverage and OHKOes Gengar, but the recoil hurts due to Donphan's lack of reliable recovery.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs allows Donphan to both take hard hits and dish them out. Donphan shouldn't sacrifice too much of its tanking capabilities for Speed, but 56 Speed EVs let it outrun Sassy Tyranitar, who might try to KO it with Ice Beam. Alternatively, 124 Speed EVs allows Donphan to outspeed standard Jellicent. Leftovers is the preferred item so Donphan remains durable enough to Rapid Spin throughout a battle. However, you can opt to boost Donphan's attacking power with Life Orb or Expert Belt, provided your team has a way of healing Donphan, such as with Wish support. Finally, if you can't fit it on your team, you can use Stealth Rock on Donphan over Ice Shard.</p>

<p>A lot of Donphan's popularity comes from the fact that it fits easily onto sun teams. In addition to spinning away hazards for common sun Pokemon, such as Ninetales and Volcarona, Donphan also brings a much-needed resistance to Rock to the table and eliminates troublesome Dragon-types and Landorus with Ice Shard. Donphan also benefits from the sunlight, which neutralizes its weakness to Water-type attacks. Additionally, the sun boost to Fire Fang allows it to 2HKO Gengar. Sun teams can also look to Venusaur to absorb Toxic Spikes, which Donphan hates. Even though this set can get past most spinblockers with the right attack, a Pursuit user such as Scizor can still prove useful to ease prediction. This Donphan will quickly fall to strong special attacks, so Blissey can be used as a partner to sponge special attacks while providing Donphan with enormous Wishes. Blissey can also cure Donphan of troublesome status ailments with Aromatherapy.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Donphan can use Sand Veil when paired with a sand inducer; the 20% boost to evasion can free up an opportunity for Donphan to spin or lay Stealth Rock. However, Sturdy makes Donphan a much more reliable utility Pokemon, and doesn't force it to rely on weather to function properly. Donphan is a good candidate for a Choice Band set as it has strong EdgeQuake coverage in addition to priority in the form of Ice Shard, but Landorus and Excadrill generally outclass it in this role, and Donphan should almost always be utilizing one of its best traits: Rapid Spin. Counter is an interesting option on Donphan as Sturdy essentially gives it a free Focus Sash, but this set has trouble using Rapid Spin or setting up hazards as it is usually at 1 HP. Superpower can be used on either set to stop Air Balloon users such as Excadrill, Heatran, and Terrakion from setting up on Donphan, but the stat drops make Donphan prime setup bait. Assurance can be used to hit Ghost-types trying to block Rapid Spin, but Jellicent and Gengar can easily shrug off a 50 Base Power Assurance. Donphan has access to some other attacks, such as Seed Bomb, Thunder Fang, and Ice Fang, but Earthquake and Stone Edge usually provide it with enough coverage and power.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Defensive Donphan despises Ghost-types as they block Rapid Spin; Jellicent is only 3HKOed by Earthquake while Gengar is immune to it, and both can KO Donphan with their respective STAB attacks. As Donphan also typically carries only one attack that can harm Gengar, SubDisable Gengar can completely shut it down. If Chandelure switches in on Rapid Spin, it will trap, outspeed, and rip through Donphan's paper-thin Special Defense. While they can't stop Donphan from fulfilling its main role of spinning away hazards, physical walls such as Skarmory, Ferrothorn, Gliscor, Forretress, and Bronzong will often force Donphan to switch out (provided that Donphan isn't using Fire Fang in the sun in Ferrothorn's and Forretress's case). Donphan hates being induced with status; a burn turns Donphan into complete setup bait, while Toxic will wear it down quickly considering its lack of reliable recovery. Jellicent can burn Donphan with Will-O-Wisp, and Gliscor can poison it. Finally, strong special attackers, such as Latios and Starmie, can prey on Donphan's miserable Special Defense stat.</p>