[Overview]

<p>While Genesect's bizarre appearance might lead one to doubt its offensive prowess, one look at its movepool and base stats should tell you what a big mistake this is. Its high base 120 Special Attack and Attack stats, coupled with access to Download and a plethora of powerful offensive options such as Flamethrower, Ice Beam, Thunderbolt, Bug Buzz, and U-turn, make it a fearsome offensive threat that can run a variety of sets, ranging from Choice Scarf to even Rock Polish. Genesect's Bug / Steel typing gives it a whopping nine resistances and one immunity to go with its decent 71 / 95 / 95 defenses, meaning it gets many opportunities to switch in and wreak havoc. Unfortunately, Game Freak gave Genesect a rage-inducing base 99 Speed, leaving it narrowly outsped by common threats such as Garchomp, Manaphy, and Jirachi. Genesect is also vulnerable to all forms of entry hazards save for Toxic Spikes, and a 4x weakness to Fire-type attacks doesn't help either. Don't let these flaws deter you from using Genesect, however, as this powerful mecha bug can be a great asset to almost any team.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Thunderbolt / Bug Buzz
move 4: Flamethrower / Bug Buzz
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Hasty / Naive
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>While Genesect falls agonizingly short of the magic base 100 Speed tier, it can still put a Choice Scarf set to great use with its base 99 Speed, outspeeding threats such as Dragonite, Haxorus, and Gyarados after a Dragon Dance. What makes this set so dangerous is Genesect's access to Download, a slew of coverage moves, and STAB U-turn, making it hard to counter. Thanks to its numerous resistances, Genesect can repeatedly switch in safely, obtain a Download boost, and scout the opponent's move with U-turn or fire off a powerful attack. Unlike Scizor, Genesect can deal heavy damage to bulky threats such as Skarmory and Jellicent which are common switch-ins to U-turn, while still outspeeding a major portion of the metagame. Once faster checks have been eliminated, Genesect can also sweep a weakened team late-game if it obtains a Special Attack boost.</p>

<p>U-turn is the crux of this set, making Genesect a powerful momentum grabber that can break down walls with ease; with STAB and an Attack boost from Download, it can deal heavy damage to a wide range of threats, even those that resist it. It also eases prediction early-game, as Genesect can hit the switch-in hard and go to a counter. Ice Beam takes out Dragon-type threats such as Dragonite and Garchomp, while Flamethrower roasts Steel-types such as Skarmory looking to sponge U-turn. Finally, Thunderbolt takes out Water-types such as Keldeo and Jellicent which can take Genesect's other moves, gets a hard hit on Chandelure, and gives Genesect BoltBeam coverage. However, Bug Buzz can be used over either of Thunderbolt or Flamethrower for a strong special STAB with which to clean up late-game.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Genesect's Special Attack and Speed, with a Speed-boosting nature being used to make the most of Genesect's unique Speed tier. A Hasty nature is preferred to soak up resisted Dragon-type moves such as Latios's Draco Meteor, but Naive is also an option to better take powerful physical priority attacks such as Mach Punch. It should also be noted that, depending on your team, some EVs can be shifted from Special Attack to Attack to obtain the OHKO on certain threats with U-turn: 68 EVs (with an Attack boost) for Serperior, 104 EVs for Deoxys-S, and 112 EVs (with an Attack boost) for Latios. If you don't wish to lower Genesect's defenses, running a Timid nature is also an option, though this will significantly lower U-turn's power.</p>

<p>Genesect loves having entry hazards on the opponent's field, as this wears down its counters and makes it hard for them to repeatedly soak up its attacks. Forretress and Ferrothorn are great choices for this role; they compound Genesect's Fire-type weakness though, so Deoxys-S is also an option. Rapid Spin support is recommended as Genesect needs to switch in multiple times and is vulnerable to entry hazards. Heatran is a huge pain for this set to deal with, meaning powerful attackers that can take it out, such as Terrakion and Garchomp, make great teammates. Dugtrio in particular is an excellent partner, as Genesect can U-turn out of a Heatran switch-in and pop its Air Balloon, allowing Dugtrio to trap and OHKO Heatran with Earthquake. Volt Switch users such as Rotom-W and Raikou are also great offensive partners, especially if you are using Genesect on a VoltTurn team. Genesect can also be used as a part of a VoltTurn core on a rain team, since the rain somewhat mitigates its Fire-type weakness and allows it to run Thunder over Thunderbolt, making Politoed a good teammate; do note though that Bug Buzz should be used over Flamethrower.</p>

[SET]
name: Rock Polish
move 1: Rock Polish
move 2: Flamethrower
move 3: Ice Beam 
move 4: Thunderbolt / Bug Buzz
item: Life Orb
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe


[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Genesect can also run a very dangerous Rock Polish set, sweeping late-game once its counters have been weakened. It sits at a frightening 606 Speed after a Rock Polish, outspeeding even Jolly Excadrill in the sand; this ensures that fast Choice Scarf users such as Terrakion and Latios will not be able to rain on Genesect's parade. Obtaining a Rock Polish boost is not too difficult, either, when you consider the number of switches which Genesect forces; it can easily switch into a physical wall such as Skarmory, snag a Special Attack boost thanks to Download, and set up Rock Polish as the opponent switches. As an added plus, Genesect resists priority moves such as Ice Shard and ExtremeSpeed, and even Mach Punch from the likes of Breloom and Conkeldurr will not OHKO it.</p>

<p>Once again, Flamethrower, Ice Beam, and Thunderbolt are Genesect's primary attacking options, covering a wide range of common threats in the metagame and giving it perfect neutral coverage. However, Bug Buzz can be used over Thunderbolt in the last moveslot as Genesect loves having a powerful STAB option to sweep weakened teams with.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As Genesect is not running any physical attacks, simply maximizing its Special Attack and Speed and using a Timid nature is the way to go. The remaining 4 EVs are invested in Special Defense to ensure that opposing Genesect only get an Attack boost in the rare case that they switch in. Don't even consider using Leftovers on this set; the power boost offered by Life Orb to all of Genesect's attacks is too good to pass up. If you are running Genesect on a rain team, Thunder and Bug Buzz should be used instead of Thunderbolt and Flamethrower, respectively.</p>

<p>Since this set is to be used only as a late-game sweeper, it needs quite some support from its teammates in order to be effective. First, a powerful physical attacker such as Choice Band Terrakion makes a fantastic offensive partner, as it can easily take out special tanks such as Tyranitar, Heatran, and Blissey that put a stop to Genesect's fun. Chandelure gives this set a lot of trouble, as it can take a hit at full health and KO back, meaning a strong Pursuit user such as Tyranitar is a good teammate. Focus Sash Dugtrio can help here as well, as it can trap and take out the aforementioned threats that can stop Genesect's sweep. Entry hazard support also helps Genesect immensely, ensuring that the aforementioned threats cannot keep sponging its attacks and thus paving the way for a sweep. Providing Genesect with Wish support can give it a second chance to pull off a sweep; good options for this role include Blissey, Vaporeon, and Latias. Lastly, while not absolutely necessary, Rapid Spin support too can allow Genesect to attempt a sweep several times, especially if you can't afford to spare a teamslot just for Wish support.</p>

[SET]
name: All-Out Attacker
move 1: U-turn
move 2: Thunderbolt
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Flamethrower
item: Life Orb / Expert Belt
nature: Naive / Hasty
evs: 252 SpA / 4 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set capitalizes on Genesect's excellent coverage and access to Download to function as a powerful mid-game attacker, tearing gaping holes in the opponent's team. The ability to switch moves eases prediction immensely, as Genesect can simply fire off powerful attacks and U-turn to a teammate when met with a counter, wearing down the opponent's defensive core for a teammate to muscle through and sweep later. Walls such as Ferrothorn, Jellicent, and Skarmory are all destroyed by the appropriate move, and even Blissey takes upwards of 50% damage from +1 U-turn. Though Genesect is narrowly outsped by Garchomp and the numerous threats with base 100 Speed, it can still get past these checks with U-turn and some prediction, dealing heavy damage to them as they switch in and going to a teammate that can take them out. Unlike the other sets, Genesect can freely run all three of Flamethrower, Ice Beam, and Thunderbolt while still having room for U-turn in the last moveslot, the reason being that it can freely switch attacks; it no longer needs a strong STAB option as it doesn't function as a late-game cleaner.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>As with the Choice Scarf set, Special Attack and Speed are maximized, with a Naive or a Hasty nature used depending on the attacks you wish Genesect to take: Hasty for special Dragon-type attacks such as Draco Meteor, and Naive for powerful physical priority like Breloom's Mach Punch. Once again, some EVs can be shifted from Special Attack to Attack for nabbing the OHKO on threats such as Deoxys-S with U-turn. Life Orb is the preferred item for the power boost which it offers to all of Genesect's attacks, but Expert Belt is also a great option to bluff a Choice set and nab a surprise KO or two. Shed Shell can be used to escape from Chandelure while bluffing a Choice set.</p> 
<p>If using Expert Belt or Shed Shell, you could opt to replace U-turn with Substitute in the fourth moveslot, run a Timid nature, and move the 4 Attack EVs into Special Defense to fool the opponent into believing that Genesect is running a Choice Scarf. This allows it to easily set up a Substitute and nab a surprise KO or two, which can be game-changing. Once again, if you are using Genesect on a rain team, use Thunder instead of Thunderbolt; Hidden Power Water is also an option over Flamethrower to deal heavy damage to Heatran in the rain. Bug Buzz might seem usable over one of Genesect's coverage options, but as mentioned earlier, this set relies heavily on Genesect's fantastic coverage, and U-turn already deals heavy damage to threats such as Tyranitar. Finally, Hidden Power Ground can be used to nab a surprise KO on Heatran, but its surprise factor can be ruined by the use of Protect.</p>

<p>As this set functions primarily as a wallbreaker, its best teammates are powerful sweepers which can sweep a weakened team with ease. However, randomly slapping on a few sweepers will rarely prove to be effective. While Genesect is highly efficient at breaking through defensive cores and can take the odd hit or two with its decent defenses, it is easily taken out by pretty much any faster attacker with a super effective Fire-type attack, meaning bulky Dragon-types such as Dragonite and Garchomp make great teammates; they can take advantage of Genesect eliminating Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Skarmory to set up and sweep or just spam Outrage. Alternatively, a fast Choice Scarf user such as Terrakion or Latios can sweep a weakened team with ease. Entry hazard support too is, as always, of great help to Genesect and its teammates, since it makes wallbreaking a much easier task.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>With Genesect's enormous movepool, it should hardly come as a surprise that it has a large number of other options to consider. A Choice Specs set can dish out heavy damage, particularly with a Special Attack boost from Download, but it is walled easily and forced out by faster threats such as Latios and Thundurus. Hidden Power Ground is usable on any set to net a surprise KO on common Heatran switch-ins, but it does little else. Explosion might seem like a good option on the All-Out Attacker set to deal heavy damage to Blissey, but its nerf makes it a bad option, and U-turn already hurts the pink blob significantly. Quick Attack is Genesect's only form of priority and can be used as a last-ditch attempt to finish off a weakened, faster opponent. Genesect also has access to special attacks such as Shadow Ball, Tri Attack, Signal Beam, Psychic, and Energy Ball, but they provide redundant coverage with the moves listed on the above sets. Techno Blast is Genesect's signature move, but if you think it is viable and wish to run it along with a Douse Drive, then a visit to the psychiatrist is certainly in order; Water-type Techno Blast is weaker than by Life Orb-boosted Hidden Power Water. Focus Sash can be used on the All-Out Attacker set to nab a surprise KO on a faster opponent, but the prevalence of entry hazards makes this a bad idea.</p>

<p>Genesect has several other boosting moves up its sleeve, but these are mostly unusable: Flame Charge is completely outclassed by Rock Polish, Charge Beam is weak and unreliable, while running a physical or even a mixed Hone Claws set is a sheer waste of Genesect's special attacking prowess. Finally, Genesect has access to Thunder Wave to cripple fast threats as they switch in, but it is better off just attacking.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>With Genesect's fantastic coverage and access to U-turn, keeping it in check rather than trying to flat-out counter it will generally yield better results. Choice Scarf Chandelure can trap and eliminate non-Choice sets, but it must be careful while switching in as it will take heavy damage from a +1 Thunderbolt. Quite a few special tanks can also take all of Genesect's attacks with ease and force it out. Chansey, and to a lesser extent Blissey, comes to mind immediately, as it can sponge pretty much any special attack with its titanic special bulk while still soaking up a +1 U-turn comfortably; in return, it can cripple Genesect with Thunder Wave or wear it down with Seismic Toss. Specially defensive Heatran, while it is destroyed by Hidden Power Ground, isn't OHKOed by even a +1 Life Orb-boosted Thunderbolt, and can incinerate Genesect with its STAB Fire-type attacks. Tyranitar takes heavy damage from U-turn, but it can sponge all of Genesect's other attacks and destroy it with Fire Blast.</p>

<p>Exploiting Genesect's base 99 Speed is another great way of checking it. While it does have decent defensive stats, Genesect will still fold up to any powerful neutral STAB attack after some residual damage, and it is also vulnerable to both Stealth Rock and Spikes. Having entry hazards on the field will thus put the mecha bug between a rock and a hard place, especially if you also pack a fast, powerful Choice Scarf user such as Terrakion or Hidden Power Fire Latios to force Genesect out. Offensive Deoxys-S can revenge kill Genesect as well, as it outspeeds even the Choice Scarf set and OHKOes with Fire Punch or Hidden Power Fire. Lastly, Choice Scarf Magnezone with Hidden Power Fire works in a similar manner to Chandelure, but Choice Scarf Genesect can still outspeed and OHKO with Flamethrower.</p>