[Overview]

<p>With its fantastic Water / Ghost typing, 100 / 70 / 105 defensive stats, and access to a host of useful support moves such as Taunt, Will-O-Wisp, and Toxic, Jellicent is certainly more useful than the average can of Pringles. What truly sets it apart from other bulky Water-types, however, is its secondary Ghost typing, which allows it to function as an effective spinblocker. Jellicent also has a reliable recovery move in Recover, which prolongs its longevity by leaps and bounds. It can even put its decent base 85 Special Attack to good use by surprising potential counters with moves such as Shadow Ball and Ice Beam. Unfortunately, Jellicent's average base 70 Defense allows powerful physical attacks from the likes of Excadrill to break through it, and weaknesses to Pursuit and common Electric-type attacks don't help either. Don't write off Jellicent on the basis of these flaws though, as it can lead dangerous threats such as Keldeo to their watery graves.</p>

[SET]
name: Utility Counter
move 1: Scald / Surf
move 2: Will-O-Wisp / Toxic 
move 3: Recover
move 4: Taunt
item: Shed Shell / Leftovers
ability: Water Absorb
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 220 Def / 40 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Jellicent might not have the imposing defensive stats of Ferrothorn, but it does have highly useful immunities to Fighting-, Water-, and Normal-type attacks, as well as resistances to Fire-, Ice-, and Bug-type ones. 100 / 70 / 105 defenses afford Jellicent enough special bulk to take on threats such as Latios, and while its base 70 Defense might seem subpar, Jellicent has access to Will-O-Wisp to make up for this. Scald is preferred over Surf for its burn chance, particularly if you are running Toxic, but Surf can be used instead for the guaranteed OHKO on Chandelure after Stealth Rock.</p>

<p>The choice between Will-O-Wisp and Toxic is heavily influenced by the threats that you want Jellicent to check. Will-O-Wisp is preferred as it enables Jellicent to shut down Pursuit users such as Tyranitar and cripple physical attackers in general. However, with Toxic, Jellicent can cripple bulky threats such as Latias and Politoed, as well as opposing Jellicent. Recover gives Jellicent valuable recovery, enabling it to stall out anything which cannot 2HKO it in conjunction with Will-O-Wisp or Toxic. Taunt shuts down walls such as Chansey and Skarmory, preventing them from healing and protecting Jellicent from crippling status such as Toxic. As an added plus, Jellicent is immune to Seismic Toss and can heal off the little damage these walls inflict with Recover, allowing it to stall them out with ease.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are mainly put into HP and Defense to give Jellicent optimum physical bulk, with a Bold nature further boosting Jellicent's Defense; this ensures that Genesect will not get a Special Attack boost upon switching in. The rest of the EVs are simply dumped in Special Defense. Water Absorb is the ability of choice for an additional Water-type immunity; Cursed Body is too situational and unreliable for it to merit use. A specially defensive EV spread can be used to better tank special attacks if you seek to use Jellicent solely as a special tank. Shadow Ball can be used as the STAB option to deal heavy damage to Starmie, but Water-type attacks have better neutral coverage, not to mention the fact that Jellicent will be unable to wear down walls such as Skarmory and Chansey. Ice Beam is also an option to deal heavy damage to Dragon-types such as Dragonite, but Jellicent cannot stay in and attack unless it burns them on the switch with Will-O-Wisp.</p>

<p>While Jellicent serves as a utility counter to specific threats that its team has trouble dealing with, it needs some support itself to be effective. Pairing it with Ferrothorn to create the famed FerroCent defensive core is a great idea, as the two have excellent synergy; Jellicent can spinblock and switch in on Fire- and Fighting-type attacks all day long, while Ferrothorn can set up entry hazards and sponge Electric- and Grass-type attacks. Skarmory makes a good teammate as well, as it can set up Spikes and easily check physical threats that trouble Jellicent, such as Excadrill and Dragonite. A special wall such as Chansey can help Jellicent immensely by soaking up Electric- and Grass-type special attacks that give it a lot of trouble, luring Fighting-type attacks for it to switch into, and providing Aromatherapy support to keep it free of status. Providing Jellicent with Toxic Spikes support is also a good idea, as this allows it to run Will-O-Wisp while maintaining the ability to stall out bulky Water-types such as Politoed. Good offensive partners for Jellicent are those that can switch into and take out the Pokemon which threaten it. Lum Berry Dragonite walls Breloom cold and can OHKO it with Fire Punch. A strong Pursuit user such as Tyranitar checks Chandelure, which can trap and eliminate Jellicent. Raikou and Zapdos make fine checks to Electric-types such as Rotom-W and Thundurus, as they can switch into Electric-type attacks and deal heavy damage with a STAB Thunderbolt of their own. A bulky Ground-type such as Mamoswine is also recommended to switch into stray Volt Switches.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Jellicent's wide movepool grants it a few alternative options to consider. It has access to Energy Ball to catch Water-types off-guard, but forgoing Taunt for this is not a good idea. Hydro Pump is a more powerful option over Scald or Surf, but its low accuracy and PP can be issues. Hex can be used to deal heavy damage to statused opponents, especially with Toxic Spikes support. A Choice Specs set with Water Spout can work as a bulky wallbreaker with Trick Room support. Speaking of Trick Room, Jellicent can also set up the field effect itself. Pain Split can be used as a recovery option, but Recover is much more reliable. Safeguard can be used to guard against status; this prevents Prankster users such as Thundurus from ruining a teammate's sweep. Lastly, Night Shade can be used over Scald to dish out more consistent damage, especially to threats which resist Water-type attacks, but Scald's burn chance generally makes it the superior option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Exploiting Jellicent's poor Defense and weaknesses to common attacks is the way to go as far as checking it is concerned. Breloom comes to mind immediately, as it can OHKO Jellicent with Bullet Seed or force a switch and set up Swords Dance, fearing only a burn from Will-O-Wisp or Scald as it switches in. Ferrothorn can also score an OHKO using Power Whip, but its low Speed forces it to be wary of burn. Physical sweepers such as Garchomp and Excadrill can muscle through Jellicent with their STAB attacks after a boost; the former is especially dangerous as it can block Will-O-Wisp with Substitute. Electric-types such as Thundurus, Rotom-W, and Raikou all destroy Jellicent with their STAB moves and don't mind a burn either. Manaphy can OHKO Jellicent after a Tail Glow with Energy Ball; it isn't bothered by status in the rain thanks to Hydration. Genesect can 2HKO with Thunderbolt, and with its decent bulk, it isn't even 2HKOed by Scald. Fast Taunt users such as Thundurus shut down Jellicent as they don't take much damage from its weak Scalds. Toxic Spikes ruin Jellicent as well, putting it on a timer each time it switches in. Sun teams also screw up Jellicent badly, weakening Scald and allowing powerful Fire-types such as Volcarona to muscle through it after a boost or two. Choice Scarf Chandelure in particular can trap and take out Jellicent with Shadow Ball; Scald fails to OHKO it in the sun.</p>