[Overview]

<p>If there's one thing that defines Reuniclus, it's Magic Guard. Magic Guard is an amazing ability, making Reuniclus completely immune to any form of passive damage. This allows Reuniclus to take on defensive teams quite easily, as they rely on passive damage such as Spikes and Toxic to take down the opposing team, while Reuniclus can set up with Calm Mind and Recover. Fast offensive teams on the other hand have trouble with a Trick Room set, that can use its low speed to advantage to "outspeed" nearly everything under Trick Room. Unfortunately Dream World isn't very kind to Reuniclus, as it adds two major threats to it: Chandelure and Genesect. However, with the right support, Reuniclus is definitely a dangerous sweeper that shouldn't be underestimated.</p>

[SET]
name: Calm Mind
move 1: Calm Mind
move 2: Recover
move 3: Psychic / Psyshock
move 4: Focus Blast
item: Leftovers / Life Orb
nature: Bold
ability: Magic Guard
evs: 252 HP / 224 Def / 32 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Reuniclus's bread-and-butter set, and is great at taking on defensive teams. Thanks to Magic Guard, defensive Pokemon are forced to attack Reuniclus to damage it. With this EV spread, Reuniclus is very bulky on the physical side, while Calm Mind will boost its Special Defense, making Reuniclus hard to take down. Recover adds to this, as Reuniclus can just heal off damage taken whenever it gets low on health. Because of this, Reuniclus can set up on almost anything commonly found on stall teams, and without a proper counter, it will easily take them down single-handedly.</p>

<p>Psychic is Reuniclus's best STAB move, as after several boosts, it hits anything that doesn't resist it very hard. Psyshock is a decent option to use instead of Psychic, as it lets it beat Calm Mind Latias, as well as other Reuniclus, but Psychic is usually the better choice as Reuniclus beats Blissey and Chansey even with Psychic. Focus Blast is the best option in the last slot, as it provides good coverage with Psychic.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The choice of item depends on your preference. Leftovers is the main choice as it provides more longevity, and most importantly allows Reuniclus to avoid the 2HKO from support Tyranitar. Life Orb is also a good option, as it provides a recoil-free boost to Reuniclus's attacks thanks to Magic Guard. 32 EVs are invested in Special Attack, as this lets Reuniclus KO Chandelure after one Calm Mind as well as Stealth Rock damage. This means that if Chandelure tries to trap Reuniclus, it will cost it its life as even a Choice Specs-boosted Shadow Ball won't KO Reuniclus after one Calm Mind. The rest of the EVs are used to maximize Reuniclus's physical bulk so that it can take hits from the likes of Ferrothorn and Gliscor.</p>

<p>Choice Band Scizor is a major threat to this set, as it can take a boosted Focus Blast and deal heavy damage with U-turn, allowing a faster teammate to take Reuniclus out with ease. In the same vein, specially defensive Jirachi can sponge Reuniclus's boosted attacks easily, paralyze it, and wear it down with Iron Head. Chandelure is thus an excellent Pokemon to pair with Reuniclus, as it can trap and take out Steel- and Psychic-types who trouble Reuniclus with its STAB attacks. However, Chandelure and Reuniclus do share a weakness to Ghost- and Dark-type attacks, so it is recommended you use something that resists those types.</p>

[SET]
name: Offensive Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Psychic / Psyshock
move 3: Focus Blast
move 4: Hidden Power Fire / Shadow Ball
item: Life Orb
nature: Quiet
ability: Magic Guard
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA
ivs: 2 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set exchanges the ability to beat defensive teams easily for a way of threatening fast offensive teams. Reuniclus has incredibly low Speed and high Special Attack, which makes Trick Room an excellent option. In Trick Room, Reuniclus is "outsped" only by Ferrothorn, and as such, offensive teams that rely on Speed to function will have problems with this set. This set is meant to come in on something that doesn't threaten it, such as Conkeldurr or Espeon, and set up Trick Room. Reuniclus can then fire off powerful Life Orb-boosted attacks without taking any recoil.</p>

<p>Psychic is Reuniclus's obligatory powerful STAB attack, hitting almost anything hard that doesn't resist it. Psyshock is also a decent option though, as it lets Reuniclus 2HKO Blissey, but it doesn't have much use other than that and Psychic hits almost everything for more damage. Focus Blast provides coverage, hitting Dark- and Steel-types such as Tyranitar and Excadrill super effectively. The choice of move in the last slot can be a tough one. Hidden Power Fire OHKOes Genesect and Scizor, who otherwise force Reuniclus out by threatening it with a powerful U-turn. Shadow Ball, on the other hand, hits opposing Psychic-types such as Latios and Alakazam, as well as bulky Ghost-types such as Jellicent. If you use Hidden Power Fire, it is advised that you use Tyranitar or Scizor to trap those Psychic- and Ghost-types.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike the Calm Mind set, this set does have trouble with Chansey and Blissey, as well as Jirachi. They are able to stall out Trick Room turns with Wish and Protect while not being 2HKOed by any of Reuniclus's moves (though Blissey must watch out for Psyshock), and can take down Reuniclus slowly with Seismic Toss or Iron Head. Scizor and Genesect can be tough to handle if Reuniclus doesn't have Hidden Power Fire, as they can take a Focus Blast at full health and KO with U-turn or Bug Buzz, respectively. When using Reuniclus on a dedicated Trick Room team, Jellicent makes for a good partner who can also set up Trick Room, as it isn't threatened by any of the moves Scizor, Genesect, or Jirachi commonly carry, and can also fire off a powerful STAB Water Spout under Trick Room. Conkeldurr is another good partner as it can beat Blissey and Chansey easily, while also covering the Dark-type weakness Reuniclus and Jellicent share.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Reuniclus can run a Trick set with Flame Orb as burn really cripples Scizor and Tyranitar who commonly switch into Reuniclus. However, the Trick Room set with Hidden Power Fire does a better job at beating Scizor and Tyranitar, as it can simply KO them and even attempt a sweep afterwards. Using Acid Armor and Calm Mind means Reuniclus will be very hard to take out, but seeing as Recover is a must on this set, Reuniclus will only have space for one attack and as such will be easily walled. Such a set is also very vulnerable to critical hits. Reuniclus can use Regenerator as an alternate ability to gain health while switching, but the main reason for using Reuniclus in the first place is Magic Guard; besides, Recover is usually enough of a recovering option.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Switching into Reuniclus can be quite difficult, as the two sets have several different counters. However, there are several Pokemon who can switch into both sets reliably. Jirachi is your best bet as it can take almost any hit easily thanks to its typing and bulk, heal off damage with Wish, and take down Reuniclus with a combination of Thunder Wave and Iron Head. Scizor also has an easy time against any Reuniclus lacking Hidden Power Fire, and can fire off a powerful U-turn or set up a Swords Dance and OHKO with Bug Bite. Sableye is rather rare, but it is immune to every attacking move on the Calm Mind set, and with enough Special Defense investment, isn't 2HKOed by Shadow Ball from the Trick Room set, so it can take down Reuniclus with the combination of Taunt, Night Shade, and Recover. Spiritomb is also immune to both Psychic and Focus Blast, and can actually hit Reuniclus with one of its STAB moves. Calm Mind Latias with Roar is another good counter to Reuniclus, particularly the Calm Mind set, as it resists both Psychic and Focus Blast. It can set up its own Calm Minds and Roar out Reuniclus to prevent it from setting up itself. However, Latias must watch out for Psyshock, and also has a harder time if Reuniclus is the last Pokemon, making Roar useless. Blissey and Chansey also wall the Trick Room set cold if Reuniclus lacks Psyshock; they can thus stall out the Trick Room turns with Wish and Protect while wearing down Reuniclus with Seismic Toss.</p>