[Overview]

<p>Rotom-W is one of the most useful Pokemon in the DW metagame. Its superb defensive typing, coupled with solid 50 / 107 / 107 defenses, allows Rotom-W to do an admirable job of checking prominent threats such as Excadrill and Landorus. Rotom-W also makes an excellent Choice Scarf user as it is able to check some of the most dangerous threats in the tier, such as +1 Dragonite, Garchomp, and Thundurus. Additionally, with Drizzle Politoed in the mix, Rotom-W can pose a major offensive threat with its dual STABs. All in all, Rotom-W is a fantastic Pokemon in the DW metagame that can take on a variety of important roles for any team.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Volt Switch
move 2: Hydro Pump
move 3: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Trick / Thunderbolt
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a Choice Scarf equipped, Rotom-W can outrun and KO dangerous threats in the DW metagame, such as Thundurus, +1 Dragonite, and Garchomp. Volt Switch enables Rotom-W to function as a scout; Rotom-W is a particularly effective user of the move due to its immunity to both forms of Spikes. Hydro Pump serves as a secondary STAB move that hits hard when boosted by rain, KOing Ground-type foes hoping to switch into Rotom-W's Electric-type attacks. Hidden Power Fire is specifically for Ferrothorn, which resists both of Rotom-W's STABs. Hidden Power Ice, on the other hand, offers a reliable method of revenge killing +1 Dragonite and Salamence. Trick rounds out the set, allowing Rotom-W to cripple common switch-ins such as Ferrothorn, Gastrodon, and Blissey, while possibly obtaining Leftovers to capitalize on Rotom-W's great bulk. However, Thunderbolt is a viable alternative due to its superior power and ability to consistently break Substitutes of Pokemon such as Chandelure and Gyarados.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>A Timid nature and 252 Speed EVs enable Rotom-W to outrun +2 Gorebyss and Modest Choice Scarf Genesect. Two moves to consider in the third slot are Signal Beam and Hidden Power Grass, as the former OHKOes Celebi while the latter disposes of Gastrodon, but the overall coverage these two attacks provide is outclassed by Hidden Power Fire or Ice. Finally, Rotom-W can use Thunder over Thunderbolt if it has rain support.</p>

<p>Scizor makes an excellent partner to Rotom-W, forming a VoltTurn chain that can deal with the majority of each other's counters. Genesect can perform a similar role as Scizor, but Chansey walls both it and Rotom-W. Rotom-W appreciates Rapid Spin support, as Stealth Rock can limit the number of times Rotom-W can use Volt Switch. Rapid Spin Excadrill pairs up well with Rotom-W, as Rotom-W can counter Gliscor and Skarmory, two of Excadrill's biggest obstacles. Excadrill can also OHKO a large portion of special walls for Rotom-W. Choice Scarf Rotom-W loves rain support to compensate for its lack of boosting item or move. Drizzle Politoed is the best way to supply Rotom-W with rain; a Choice variant in particular can break down walls for Rotom-W.</p>

<p>Rotom-W thrives with entry hazard support, as it secures more KOs while putting the opponent under pressure with Volt Switch. Stealth Rock also breaks Dragonite's Multiscale, allowing Rotom-W to OHKO Dragon Dance Dragonite with Hidden Power Ice. Stealth Rock also puts Thundurus in range where Rotom-W can OHKO with Rotom-W's Volt Switch. Forretress can provide Rotom-W with both hazard and Rapid Spin support, while Rotom-W can switch into Fire-type attacks aimed at Forretress. Finally, Wish support can preserve Rotom-W's excellent bulk and let it repeatedly switch into threats. Rotom-W shares greats synergy with Jirachi, which can provide Wishes large enough to heal Rotom-W.</p>

[SET]
name: Tank
move 1: Volt Switch / Thunderbolt
move 2: Hydro Pump
move 3: Hidden Power Fire / Hidden Power Ice
move 4: Pain Split / Will-O-Wisp
item: Leftovers
nature: Bold
evs: 248 HP / 8 SpA / 252 Def

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to deal damage to the opponent's team over a long period of time while having enough bulk to serve as a defensive pivot, essentially combining Rotom-W's offensive, defensive, and support capabilities. Volt Switch allows Rotom-W to scout for counters, and as this is a slower set, teammates can switch in safely after Rotom-W uses it. Thunderbolt is an option as it makes this set a hard counter to Substitute + Dragon Dance Gyarados. Hydro Pump serves as a secondary STAB move that disposes of the Ground-types Rotom-W can easily switch into, such as Landorus and Excadrill. Rotom-W can generally handle Hydro Pump's imperfect accuracy due to its great bulk.</p>

<p>Hidden Power Fire is notable for KOing Ferrothorn outright, while Hidden Power Ice is handy for hitting Dragonite, Salamence, and Garchomp. Hidden Power Ice is also useful for hitting Landorus and Gliscor more reliably than Hydro Pump. Pain Split provides a reliable source of recovery, as Pokemon with huge HP stats, such as Blissey, commonly switch into Rotom-W. Will-O-Wisp is another option, as it enables Rotom-W to cripple Tyranitar and Ferrothorn.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EVs maximize Rotom-W's physical bulk so that it can comfortably take on Excadrill and Landorus. Rotom-W can use an alternate EV spread of 40 HP / 252 SpA / 216 Spe, which maximizes its attacking power and enables it to outspeed neutral-natured Gyarados, Mamoswine, Dragonite, and uninvested Latias, with the remaining EVs put into HP for added bulk. This set is a lot more flexible in terms of move selection as it isn't locked into one move like the Choice Scarf set. Expert Belt allows Rotom-W to feign a Choice item while using Volt Switch, but Rotom-W will miss the recovery. Hidden Power Grass hits Gastrodon, which is immune to both of Rotom-W's STABs. Thunder Wave can be used in the third slot; reminiscent to Tinkerbell Celebi, it makes Rotom-W a more self-sufficient sweeper as it can outspeed most paralyzed threats and hit them with a powerful attack. Rotom-W can use Toxic over Will-O-Wish, but the latter is generally more useful, crippling Pokemon such Tyranitar and Ferrothorn.</p>

<p>Politoed is a good partner as it boosts Rotom-W's Water-type attacks and has the ability to burn foes with Scald, letting Rotom-W forgo Will-O-Wisp for another move. Metagross forms an excellent defensive core alongside Rotom-W, as they cover all of each other's weaknesses, while Metagross can Pursuit trap Celebi, Latias, and Latios so that Rotom-W is free to fire off its powerful STAB attacks. The likes of Calm Mind Latias and Keldeo can also capitalize on Rotom-W's ability to spread burn. Forretress can provide Rotom-W with hazard and Rapid Spin support so that it secures more KOs and is free to Volt Switch to its heart's desire. With Stealth Rock down, Rotom-W can OHKO 4/0 Dragonite with Hidden Power Ice (Dragonite might have Lum Berry, so Will-O-Wisp isn't always the best option), and with Stealth Rock and one layer of Spikes, Rotom-W can OHKO standard Magnezone with Hydro Pump. Rotom-W can also KO Jellicent, letting Forretress safely use Rapid Spin. Excadrill is also a good candidate to provide Rapid Spin, as Rotom-W can beat a large portion of Excadrill's switch-ins.</p>

[SET]
name: SubSplit
move 1: Substitute
move 2: Pain Split
move 3: Hydro Pump
move 4: Thunderbolt
item: Life Orb / Leftovers
nature: Modest
evs: 68 HP / 216 SpA / 4 SpD / 220 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Unlike its other sets, SubSpit Rotom-W plays the role of an all-out sweeper and aims to beat some of Rotom-W's conventional counters through the use of Substitute and Pain Split. Rotom-W makes an exceptional user of the SubSplit combination with its excellent typing and low base HP, meaning it gains huge amounts of health back when it uses Pain Split against walls such as Blissey. The key to this Rotom-W beating Blissey and Gastrodon is Toxic Spikes support, though Gastrodon can also simply be Toxiced as it lacks Natural Cure. With Toxic Spikes down, Blissey and Gastrodon will be put on a timer by Toxic and Rotom-W's arsenal of Pain Split and strong attacks. Rotom-W's great typing and defensive stats mean its Substitutes are relatively difficult to break. Hydro Pump and Thunderbolt hit incredibly hard as they receive boosts from STAB, Life Orb, and possibly even rain.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread maximizes Rotom-W's potency as a sweeper, while the HP EVs help Rotom-W maintain its Substitute against rain-boosted Scalds from Gastrodon and other bulky Water-types. Rotom-W prefers a Modest nature for more power; Timid can be used, but Rotom-W outspeeds nothing significant with it barring opposing Rotom-W. Life Orb is the primary item for more power; however, Leftovers is a viable option if you're worried about the omnipresent sand wearing Rotom-W down too quickly. If Rotom-W has rain support, it can use Thunder over Thunderbolt for more power and a 30% paralysis rate.</p>

<p>As previously stated, this set is much more effective with Toxic Spikes and rain support; Tentacruel can provide Toxic Spikes and Rapid Spin support, and is generally a good fit on rain teams. Politoed is an obligatory partner; a variant with Toxic is preferred to hit Gastrodon, but Choice Specs Politoed is also a good option as Rotom-W can take out Blissey and Gastrodon with proper support. Politoed also eliminates residual damage from sand or hail, which Rotom-W always appreciates. This variant of Rotom-W still has trouble with Latias and Celebi, so Scizor makes a good partner to eliminate them with Pursuit or its Bug-type attacks. If you can't fit Toxic Spikes on your team, Breloom can dispose of Blissey and Gastrodon with its STAB attacks. Breloom and Rotom-W also share good type synergy, covering up a majority of each other's weaknesses. Finally, hazards can prove useful for securing more KOs. For instance, with Stealth Rock down, Rotom-W can OHKO 252/252+ Politoed with a Life Orb-boosted Thunder, preventing Politoed from using Perish Song to ruin Rotom-W's sweep. Skarmory can lay down Spikes or Stealth Rock while covering Rotom-W's Grass-type weakness; furthermore, Rotom-W covers Skarmory's Fire-type weakness.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Rotom-W can use Choice Specs to allow teammates to switch in safely after Volt Switch, but it generally hits hard enough, and needs the Speed to revenge kill set-up sweepers. Rest + Chesto Berry is an option, but Rotom-W can stay healthy with Pain Spit, as walls with high HP commonly switch into it. Furthermore, status isn't usually a problem because of Volt Switch. Rotom-W can revisit its staple Substitute + Charge Beam set from DPP, but this set is still walled by typical Rotom-W counters, namely Gastrodon and Celebi, while Volt Switch has much more utility. Rotom-W can function as an effective dual screens lead as opponents usually won't Taunt it, expecting an offensive variant. However, barring the surprise factor, Deoxys-S is a better option due to its superior Speed.</p>

<p>Rotom-W can utilize Rain Dance to boost its own Water-type STAB while improving Thunder to 100% accuracy. In the same vein, it can also use Sunny Day to boost Hidden Power Fire in order to beat Ferrothorn. Sunny Day Rotom-W is a great fit on sun teams, as it provides backup sun and scares off Tyranitar and Politoed with its STAB moves. Shadow Ball hits Celebi and Latias harder than a super effective Hidden Power, but it won't OHKO them, and certain Hidden Power types are more useful as they enable Rotom-W to get past some of its greatest obstacles. Finally, Rindo Berry is a option to cover up Rotom-W's only weakness, namely to Grass-type moves, but Rotom-W can't do much to Grass-types in return.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>As Rotom-W is primarily a special attacker, Chansey and Blissey will naturally give it problems. The pink blobs can even check the SubSplit set if they pack Seismic Toss. Rotom-W struggles most with bulky Grass-types, such as Celebi, Ferrothorn, Breloom, and Venusaur, as they resist both of Rotom-W's STAB attacks while striking back with STAB super effective Grass-type attacks. A Pokemon commonly paired up with Venusaur, Ninetales, can also switch into Rotom-W, neutralize its Water-type attacks, and hit it with a super effective SolarBeam. Latias and Latios are excellent checks to Rotom-W, as the former shrugs off super effective Hidden Powers and Shadow Ball after one Calm Mind, while the latter is able to KO Rotom-W with a powerful Draco Meteor. Gastrodon is one of the few Pokemon immune to both of Rotom-W's STAB attacks, but the worst it can do to Rotom-W is Toxic. Finally, Choice Scarf users such as Terrakion and Serperior can prey on Rotom-W's mediocre Speed by revenge killing it.</p>