[Overview]

<p>Weavile has always been a niche Pokemon. It has two valuable attacks in Pursuit and Ice Shard, which allow Weavile to fulfill specific roles on a team. Weavile is also blisteringly fast and has a decent level of power, but is let down by its frailty, weak STAB moves, and weakness to entry hazards. While Weavile is flawed, it fits into its niche in Dream World almost perfectly. With STAB Ice Shard Weavile can revenge kill dangerous Dragon-type sweepers such as Dragonite, Salamence, and Choice Scarf Garchomp. STAB Pursuit also allows Weavile to pick off dangerous Pokemon who are vulnerable to the move; most prominently Choice Scarf Chandelure locked into any non-Fire-type move, as well as Latios and Starmie. Weavile struggles to do much outside of this role due to the lack of a powerful STAB move, but its unique combination of niches allows it to compensate for this.</p>

[SET]
name: Revenge Killer
move 1: Ice Shard
move 2: Pursuit
move 3: Low Kick
move 4: Night Slash / Ice Punch
item: Life Orb / Choice Band
ability: Pressure
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set takes full advantage of Weavile's unique combination of niches, allowing it to act as a potent revenge killer in multiple scenarios. Ice Shard is a very useful STAB move, allowing Weavile to revenge kill Garchomp, Dragonite, and Salamence with ease. Weavile can even revenge kill Breloom with a small amount of prior damage, beating Breloom to the literal punch with priority of its own. Pursuit is also an incredibly important asset, allowing Weavile to eliminate dangerous threats such as Latios, Starmie, and Choice Scarf Chandelure, assuming Chandelure is not locked into a Fire-type move. Pursuit can also be used to deal damage to Dragon-types attempting to switch out in order to avoid Ice Shard. Low Kick provides needed coverage against Steel-types, and also deals heavy amounts of damage to Tyranitar. Weavile's last move is its choice of an offensive STAB move. Night Slash is preferred, as it allows Weavile to pose a serious threats to walls such as Slowbro and Jellicent, who, so long as they didn't switch out, would not be overly bothered by Pursuit and could simply burn Weavile with Will-O-Wisp and Scald, respectively, before healing off the damage. However, Ice Punch is marginally stronger than Night Slash and provides useful coverage, so it is a considerable option.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS] 

<p>One of Weavile's biggest draws is its versatility, and as such Life Orb is an excellent item for it. However, Weavile can be a bit lacking in terms of offensive presence, which a Choice Band helps to mitigate. It restricts Weavile's utility a bit though, and makes it more likely that the opponent will find an opportunity to set up on Weavile. An Expert Belt is another option to consider, allowing Weavile to bluff a Choice Band while still providing a power boost, without the drawback of Life Orb's recoil. Brick Break is nearly as strong as Low Kick in some situations, and can break the dual screens of a Deoxys-S or Latios. Fake Out can assist in revenge killing threatening sweepers resistant to Ice Shard, such as Keldeo or Volcarona.</p>

<p>Weavile wants entry hazard support badly, but also hates having to deal with the opponent's. Deoxys-S can provide Stealth Rock and Spikes while also blocking the opponent's entry hazards with Taunt or Magic Coat. Forretress performs similarly, setting down any entry hazard and spinning the opponent's away with Rapid Spin. Weavile also dislikes passive damage from weather, so Politoed and Abomasnow can be considered for partners. Politoed removes Weavile's Fire-type weakness, and Weavile can dispose of threats such as Dragonite, Latios, and Starmie, who would otherwise trouble Politoed. Abomasnow provides passive damage to soften up Weavile's opponents in the form of hail, and greatly benefits from having Chandelure removed. Similarly, Pokemon such as Breloom and Serperior are more threatening after an opposing Chandelure is disposed of. These two also greatly benefit from having the opponent's Dragon-types dispatched. Weavile's weakness to U-turn is a concern, so Pokemon who can switch into the move with little issue, such as Skarmory and Keldeo, are necessary. Weavile is also generally unable to get past Steel-types, so partners such as Chandelure and Excadrill are all appreciated.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Weavile can boost its strength with Swords Dance, but it has difficulty setting up and is often not strong enough to muscle through physical walls. Substitute can be used to take advantage of forced switches, but exacerbates Weavile's issues with passive damage. It does have merit in conjunction with Focus Punch, however. Taunt, Torment, and Snatch can all be used to disrupt walls, sometimes forcing them to flee; a situation Weavile can take advantage of with Pursuit. Knock Off robs the opponent of their item. A Focus Sash can be used with Counter in order to gain a surprise OHKO on some physical sweepers who would otherwise not be overly bothered by Weavile, such as Infernape. Assurance becomes quite powerful with Stealth Rock support, but is situational. Punishment deals heavy damage to stat boosters, but it is limited in use and generally does not have targets worth using it on. Lastly, Beat Up is usable early game when Weavile's teammates are all healthy to deal serious damage to Pokemon with low base Defense, but is otherwise a waste of a moveslot and incredibly situational.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Choice Scarf Genesect is easily the biggest threat to Weavile, resisting both of its STAB moves, outpacing it, and OHKOing with STAB U-turn. Skarmory takes a pittance from Weavile's attacks and can lay down Spikes before healing off the damage with Roost and phazing Weavile with Whirlwind. Excadrill also fears little from Weavile while sand is up, outspeeding and annihilating it with X-Scissor or STAB Earthquake. Jirachi can take anything Weavile can throw at it and crush Weavile with Iron Head. Keldeo resists both STAB moves and can obliterate Weavile with Secret Sword. Forretress takes little damage from Weavile and can set up entry hazards on it before going for the kill with Gyro Ball. Choice Scarf Chandelure is an ironic problem, as it can switch into Ice Shard and OHKO Weavile with a STAB Overheat. Other priority users can also be an issue, such as Mach Punch Conkeldurr and Bullet Punch Scizor.</p>