[Overview]

<p>Although Azelf is blessed with superb offensive stats and speed, its weak defensive stats do not allow it to survive very long. However, it can still pack a punch with its wide variety of moves. Its base 115 Speed allows it to naturally outspeed common Pokemon, such as Tornadus, Thundurus, Terrakion, Garchomp, and Zapdos, and do massive damage. When supported correctly, Azelf can easily destroy many unprepared teams.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Zen Headbutt
move 2: Ice Punch
move 3: Explosion / U-turn
move 4: Detect
item: Normal Gem / Life Orb
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set utilizes Azelf's physical offenses as well as possible. Zen Headbutt is used to hit common Fighting-type Pokemon, such as Hitmontop and Toxicroak. Ice Punch allows Azelf to hit Dragon- and Flying-types, such as Latios, Tornadus, Thundurus, Garchomp, Zapdos, and Hydreigon. Explosion is an incredible move that, when used correctly, can often take out both of your opponent's Pokemon. Unlike most Explosion users, which are often slow and use it as a last attempt to do damage, or have to use a Choice Scarf, Azelf outspeeds most Pokemon in the VGC 2012 metagame and can use a Normal Gem to do massive damage. An unexpected Explosion early on in the match can often result in your opponent losing both of their leads. However, for those that do not like giving up one of their Pokemon in return for massive damage, U-turn can be used to let Azelf escape from Pokemon that give it trouble, while hitting Pokemon such as Latios, Cresselia, Ludicolo, and Tyranitar for super effective damage. Detect is necessary to protect Azelf from attacks as it is so frail.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Azelf has several teammates that it works well with. For example, it partners well with Ghost-types, such as Chandelure and Jellicent, that are immune to its Explosion. This allows for Azelf to use Explosion while letting its teammate get an attack off rather than using Protect. Metagross is also an excellent partner, as it is able to take out Pokemon such as Tyranitar, Weavile, Latios, and Hitmontop, which give Azelf trouble.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Psychic / Psyshock
move 2: Fire Blast
move 3: Grass Knot / Shadow Ball
move 4: Detect
item: Life Orb / Focus Sash
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses on Azelf's Special Attack, and packs moves that allow Azelf to hit a variety of different Pokemon. Either Psychic or Psyshock can work as Azelf's STAB attack. Both are powerful moves that hit several Pokemon for large amounts of damage, and OHKO Fighting-type Pokemon such as Hitmontop and Toxicroak. Fire Blast is used to hit Abomasnow, Scizor, and Ferrothorn, and will always OHKO them unless they are holding Focus Sash or Occa Berry. Grass Knot can be used to eliminate Water-type Pokemon such as Gastrodon and Swampert, and also dents Tyranitar. However, Shadow Ball can also be considered in order to hit Ghost-types, particularly Chandelure. As above, Detect is an important move in the doubles metagame; even more for Azelf considering its frailty.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p> As with the physically based variant, one of Azelf's niches is that it is able to outspeed most Pokemon in the VGC 2012 metagame, and do massive amounts of damage as well. Therefor, Azelf should use a Timid nature and max Special Attack and Speed EVs to do as much damage as possible while retaining its excellent speed. Life Orb can be used if you want the extra damage. Because Azelf is so frail, the 10% recoil won't matter much as Azelf will easily go down to any attack. However, a Focus Sash may be considered to allow Azelf to survive a super effective hit, such as Sucker Punch.</p>

<p>Infernape and Garchomp are excellent partners that give incredible coverage. Infernape is able to hit Tyranitar, which otherwise gives Azelf a lot of trouble. Garchomp also has great synergy with Azelf thanks to Azelf's ability, Levitate, which allows Garchomp to spam Earthquakes without damaging Azelf. Both Infernape and Garchomp are speedy Pokemon, and when paired with Azelf, can KO threats before they are even able to respond and strike back.</p>

<p>For those that do not like Fire Blast's risky accuracy, Flamethrower can also be used, as it still OHKOes Abomasnow and Scizor while retaining accuracy. Thunderbolt enables Azelf to hit Water- and Flying-type Pokemon, such as Politoed and Gyarados, for large amounts of damage. Colbur Berry can be used to protect Azelf from powerful Dark-type moves, such as Hitmontop's Sucker Punch or Tyranitar's Crunch. A Modest nature can considered for maximum damage, but is recommended only if Azelf has Tailwind support.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Azelf also has access to several moves you might want to consider. For example, it learns several support moves, such as Taunt, Imprison, Sunny Day, Light Screen, Reflect, Safeguard, Thunder Wave, Helping Hand, and Trick. Azelf is able to take advantage of its Speed and surprise your opponent with a support move rather than an attack. Taunt shuts down Trick Room, Protect, Thunder Wave, and other support moves. Azelf is the fastest user of Imprison and can shut down specific moves such as Protect and Trick Room. If Imprison is used, Protect is necessary over Detect, as Protect is more common. Sunny Day can catch other weather-based teams off guard. Light Screen and Reflect can be used to protect the rest of your team from strong attacks. Thunder Wave can paralyze Pokemon before they are able to get an attack off. Trick can be used with a Choice Scarf or a Choice Band to shut down common bulky Pokemon, such as Cresselia. Helping Hand, when partnered with a strong offensive partner such as Latios, can turn moves that otherwise do not KO into OHKOs. However, there are several other Pokemon, such as Whimsicott and Thundurus, that have access to similar moves and the Prankster ability, which gives support moves priority. Nevertheless, Azelf can catch opponents off guard with specific support moves that assist the rest of your team. Azelf might also want to consider a Choice Band variant that uses the moves Ice Punch, ThunderPunch, and Fire Punch for incredible coverage. However, Choice Band limits Azelf to only one move. Azelf cannot do enough damage without a Choice Band to KO common threats.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Azelf is relatively frail and has a lot of problems dealing with super effective hits. For example, Tyranitar can OHKO Azelf with Crunch as Azelf cannot first OHKO Tyranitar. Hitmontop has access to Sucker Punch to OHKO Azelf before it is able to attack. Hitmontop also learns Wide Guard, which can prevent Azelf from using Explosion and causes you to lose one of your Pokemon without damaging your opponent's. Choice Scarf Ghost-type Pokemon, such as Chandelure, can also give Azelf trouble, as they can KO it with Shadow Ball. Occa Berry Metagross can also KO Azelf with a combination of Meteor Mash and Bullet Punch, while Azelf can only do a small amount of damage with Fire Blast. Latios and Latias can completely wall Azelf that do not run Shadow Ball, and can easily KO it with Draco Meteor. As Azelf is not a very bulky Pokemon, it often only survives for a turn or two before going down.</p>