[Overview] 

<p>Azumarill is by far one of the cutest Pokemon that can be used in VGC 2012. However, Azumarill has more than just cuteness on its side; it has an ability that most Pokemon would die for in Huge Power. With Huge Power, Azumarill's Attack is boosted by 50%, and with a great offensive typing in Water, it can take advantage of this very well. However, Game Freak felt that the cute rabbit needed even more power, so in DPP, they gave Azumarill Aqua Jet, a great priority move for Azumarill. Thanks to Aqua Jet, Azumarill can nail faster common Fire-, Rock-, and Ground-type Pokemon, such as Terrakion, Volcarona, and Mamoswine. Azumarill's 100 / 80 / 80 defenses mean that it can take a hit as well, and with only two weaknesses, Azumarill can last a while. However, this is where it all ends for Azumarill. With base 50 Speed, Azumarill is painfully slow, though Aqua Jet somewhat remedies this. There are Pokemon such as Jellicent that wall Azumarill completely, meaning that there is a limit to Azumarill's usefulness. One of the perks to using Azumarill is that it is a rabbit. Imagine sweeping your opponents with a rabbit.</p>

[SET]
name: Energizer Bunny
move 1: Aqua Jet
move 2: Waterfall
move 3: Ice Punch 
move 4: Superpower / Protect 
item: Choice Band / Wacan Berry
ability: Huge Power
nature: Adamant
evs: 164 HP / 252 Atk / 92 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the bread and butter set for Azumarill, and it's easy to see why. Aqua Jet is the vital move of this set, allowing Azumarill to nail faster Pokemon such as Infernape, Excadrill, Landorus, as well as several other Pokemon. Waterfall hits harder than Aqua Jet, and gives Azumarill a STAB move to use when Aqua Jet doesn't get the KO. Ice Punch nails Dragon-types, such as Garchomp, Latias, and Hydreigon, which is a plus, considering the latter two resist Aqua Jet. Superpower can be used to hit Abomasnow and Ferrothorn harder than Ice Punch, as well as to hit other Steel-type Pokemon. However, Protect can be used to shield Azumarill from opposing attacks, keeping it alive for later in the match.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The Speed EVs are used to make sure Azumarill outpaces 0 Speed Tyranitar. Maximum Attack EVs are used to make the most of Huge Power. The remainder are used in HP to make Azumarill bulkier. However, there are other EV spreads Azumarill can use; an EV spread of 84 HP / 252 Atk / 172 Spe can be used to outspeed base 70s, though the loss of bulk is significant. 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD with 0 Speed IVs make Azumarill usable in Trick Room thanks to its low base 50 Speed. The choice of item is up to what the team needs; with a Choice Band, Azumarill's Attack will skyrocket, though this means Azumarill is locked into one attack. Wacan Berry, however, can be used to sponge Electric-type attacks from Zapdos and Thundurus, giving Azumarill time to KO with Waterfall and Aqua Jet.</p> 

<p>Azumarill, as it cannot nail Pokemon such as Jellicent, needs support to be effective. Thus, teammates that can beat Pokemon such as Jellicent and Electric-types are useful. Zapdos is a good example, as it has Hidden Power Ice or Flying to deal with Grass-types, and a STAB Thunderbolt to deal with Jellicent. Another good partner is Tyranitar, as the Special Defense boost thanks to sandstorm means it can take Electric-type attacks. However, sandstorm damage takes a toll on Azumarill. Dragon-type Pokemon, such as Hydreigon, also make great partners, as they can nail Jellicent and resist Grass- and Electric-type attacks. Partners with Lightningrod also help, though most, such as Raichu and Zebstrika, are really frail. Thunder Wave support is a must for Azumarill to outspeed Pokemon such as Latios and Weavile; Cresselia is a prime example, as it is bulky enough to use Thunder Wave multiple times.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Azumarill's movepool is really shallow, though it has a few more options it can use. Return has good overall coverage with Azumarill's Water STAB, though the given coverage moves usually work better. Aqua Tail can be used instead of Waterfall for more power; the accuracy is a turn off, however. Azumarill also has a decent support movepool, with moves such as Encore, Light Screen, and Perish Song; Azumarill, however, is at its best using its huge Attack to offensively pressure the opponent. There are also several items Azumarill that can use. Life Orb boosts Azumarill's attacks, and also allows Azumarill to switch attacks, though the recoil makes Azumarill faint faster. Water Gem can also be used for a powerful Aqua Jet, which can be game changing in taking out faster threats.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>If your team has problems with Azumarill, just add a Jellicent. Jellicent is immune to Azumarill's Water-type attacks, thanks to Water Absorb, and is also immune to Superpower and resistant to Ice Punch. Other Water-type Pokemon, such as Slowbro, Slowking, and Gyarados, also take little from its attacks; the former is resistant to all of Azumarill's attacks, while the latter has Intimidate to lower Azumarill's Attack. Zapdos and Rotom-W make great checks, as both can take an Aqua Jet and OHKO Choice Band variants with their Electric STABs. Basically, bulky Water-types and Grass-types can beat Azumarill. Finally, Dusclops and Sableye both have Will-O-Wisp, as the former is bulky enough to take a Waterfall, while the latter has priority to burn Azumarill before it can attack.</p>