[Overview]
<p>Bisharp is a Pokemon with many draws—it possesses high Attack and Defense and has quite a few resistances as a result of its Steel typing. Moreover, its Speed allows it to function both in and out of Trick Room. Bisharp is lucky to possess the second-strongest Sucker Punch in the game as well as Defiant, a rare ability that raises Bisharp's Attack two stages when a stat is lowered, allowing it to gain Attack from Intimidate. However, Bisharp is not without its flaws; its typing gives it an enormous weakness to Fighting-type moves and, in tandem with its movepool, also curses it with STAB moves that have low base power.</p>

[SET]
name: Standard
move 1: Sucker Punch
move 2: Night Slash
move 3: Iron Head
move 4: Protect
item: Dark Gem
nature: Adamant
ability: Defiant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Def

[SET COMMENTS]
<p>Sucker Punch is Bisharp's most useful move and allows it to OHKO many things that have weaknesses to it—both Chandelure and Latios are felled in one hit, for example. Night Slash provides a more reliable STAB move and Iron Head hits most things that resist Dark-type moves for at least neutral damage; it is also notable in its ability to KO 4 / 0 Toxicroak in tandem with Sucker Punch outside of Rain. Protect, which is useful to keep Bisharp alive while its teammate moves, is a move that fits onto every VGC Pokemon; Bisharp is but one of many that benefit from it.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]
<p>Dark Gem is the item of choice and allows Bisharp to maim something with Sucker Punch the first time it uses it. Sitrus Berry is also an acceptable item, as it restores a quarter of Bisharp's health when it loses more than half of its HP. The EVs and nature make Bisharp hit as hard as possible while giving it maximum bulk. 4 more Speed EVs can be added to ensure that Bisharp outspeeds Hitmontop and Metagross; similarly, a Brave nature and a 0 IV in Speed can be used to go before them in Trick Room. Rage Powder users, especially the hardy Amoonguss, are great because they can draw away Fighting-type moves. Chandelure pairs fantastically with Bisharp; while both are weak to Ground-type moves, Chandelure can switch in on Fighting- and Fire-type moves, set up Trick Room against faster teams, and KO the Steel-types that trouble Bisharp. Levitating or Flying-type Pokemon such as Latios discourage the opponent from using Earthquake to KO Bisharp. Psycho Cut can be used over Protect in order to OHKO Toxicroak and do more damage to Fighting-types than Iron Head does.</p>

[Other Options]
<p>Brick Break is the best move that Bisharp has against Steel-types, but ends up feeling weak in the end. Swords Dance makes Bisharp incredibly strong, but takes up a turn. Substitute can punish double Protects, among other things. Taunt can be used to stop Trick Room and Spore as well as other status moves, while forcing your opponent to use an attacking move, allowing Bisharp pull off a guaranteed Sucker Punch. Guillotine is a last resort move in situations where Bisharp will lose no matter what unless it hits. Steel Gem allows Bisharp to hit harder with Iron Head, Chople Berry allows Bisharp to survive Hitmontop's Mach Punch, and Focus Sash can do the same as the latter, but is made useless by Fake Out or Hail. Life Orb allows Bisharp to do great damage to whatever it hits at the cost of HP every turn. Inner Focus can be used to avoid the flinch from Fake Out, but will not work against users of Hitmontop. Against Hitmontop with Intimidate, Bisharp with Inner Focus will not have Defiant activated in response to Intimidate, so the Hitmontop user can reasonably conclude that Bisharp has Inner Focus. Technician Hitmontop does not need to use Fake Out against Bisharp and can just use Mach Punch for an OHKO assuming Bisharp does not hold a Chople Berry or Focus Sash. Bisharp can use Pressure, but it's other awesome abilities outclass it completely in usefulness.</p>

[Checks and Counters]
<p>Because Bisharp relies on a priority Sucker Punch to attack, any Pokemon that is faster than Bisharp that resists Sucker Punch is immediately a threat. Pokemon such as Terrakion and Infernape are prime examples, as both Pokemon are resistant to Sucker Punch and can OHKO Bisharp with their STAB attacks. Terrakion even has Justified, meaning it gains an Attack boost from a Sucker Punch. Bulky Pokemon such as Hitmontop and Krookodile also make great counters, as they can use their STAB attacks to beat Bisharp. Hydreigon and Heatran only fear a Brick Break and both can retaliate with a Fire Blast. If you don't have a Dark-type resist to beat Bisharp, don't worry; any Pokemon with decent bulk and a super effective attack can beat Bisharp. Zapdos and Garchomp can use Heat Wave and Earthquake, respectively, to rack up damage on Bisharp, eventually beating it. Lastly, any Pokemon with the move Substitute can use it on a Sucker Punch, making it easier to defeat Bisharp.</p>