[Overview]

<p>With a fabulous Steel typing, a Ground-type immunity, a great movepool, and decent stats, one might wonder why Bronzong is not seen very often in the VGC metagame. The answer is simple: its low HP stat lowers its bulk tremendously, and its low Speed restricts it to being used on Trick Room and anti-Trick Room teams. Its only weakness to common Fire-type moves does not assist Bronzong either, as any STAB Fire-type move, especially in sun, will likely make quick work of it. However, these shortcomings should not deter one from choosing it. Bronzong is perfectly capable of providing support to any team, and can be a major nuisance for the opponent.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Gyro Ball
move 3: Imprison / Light Screen
move 4: Protect / Explosion
item: Sitrus Berry / Mental Herb / Occa Berry
nature: Sassy / Brave
ability: Levitate
evs: 252 HP / 252 SpD / 4 Atk 

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Bronzong's Steel typing, its Levitate ability, low Speed, access to Gyro Ball, and good defenses help it to distinguish itself as an exceptionally useful Trick Room supporter. Trick Room is the crux of the set, setting up the distorted dimensions for itself and the team, enabling it to outspeed the majority of the VGC metagame when Trick Room is in play. Gyro Ball is a reliable and very powerful move that usually has a massive Base Power due to Bronzong's low Speed, and is capable of OHKOing frailer threats such as Gengar and Terrakion. Imprison enables Bronzong to stop opposing Trick Room teams and, when used in conjunction with Protect, prevent the opponent's access to the staple move of doubles. Light Screen temporarily increases the team's Special Defense, easing the damage taken from common spread moves such as Surf and Heat Wave. Lastly, Bronzong has the ability to use Explosion in order to get a teammate in safely. If one does not want this robot to have its death hastened, then you can use Protect, a staple move in Doubles that has many uses.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Bronzong likes to have a Mental Herb to get through Taunt and not be deemed worthless by Whimsicott's Encore; however, if you have a method for dealing with Whimsicott and are running Bronzong on a rain team, then a Sitrus Berry is recommended to maximize Bronzong's longevity. Lastly, an Occa Berry enables Bronzong to take one sun-boosted Heat Wave from Ninetales and then proceed to set up Trick Room.</p>

<p>Bronzong's low HP stat prevents it from surviving a STAB Surf from the likes of Drizzle Politoed, and also prevents it from living a STAB Heat Wave from Fire-types such as Ninetales without the help of an Occa Berry. Bronzong likes Fake Out support to stop these moves for one turn so that it can set up its Trick Room, and later set up Light Screen to help itself and its teammate set up. Hariyama sets itself apart from the crowd of Pokemon that can use Fake Out, thanks to its Guts ability and massive Attack stat that allows it to apply pressure to the opponent, while Bronzong aids itself and the team. If this cannot be achieved, another Trick Room user that can withstand these moves, such as Jellicent, is recommended. Lickilicky deserves a special mention as it prevents the STAB Water-type moves from being boosted by Drizzle, thanks to its ability, Cloud Nine, therefore making them much more bearable.</p>

<p>Bronzong's supporting ability not only lies in using Trick Room, but having the ability to stop it. Bronzong enjoys partners that can apply pressure to the other team that appreciate the removal of Trick Room. Garchomp stands out among these Pokemon due to its ability to eliminate Chandelure, one of Bronzong's most threatening enemies. In return, Bronzong can OHKO opposing Ice-types that try to freeze Garchomp. Should Bronzong want to more heavily damage these Ice-types the alternative spread of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD can be used to swap Bronzong's Special Defense for a damage boost in its moves. </p>

[Other Options]

<p>Bronzong can run a dual screen set consisting of Light Screen, Reflect, Explosion, and Gyro Ball, but Cresselia normally outclasses it in this regard, due to its much higher bulk and access to Helping Hand and Icy Wind, which make it much more than dead weight after it has set up screens. Bronzong also has a slew of attacking options it can use in the support set such as Rock Slide, Zen Headbutt, Earthquake, and Iron Head that can offer more coverage, or in Iron Head's case, a more reliable STAB move. Bronzong has access to Rain Dance, Sandstorm, and Sunny Day, and can use these moves to support the team, if desired.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Whimsicott and Imprison Chandelure are arguably the only Pokemon that can usually prevent Bronzong from setting up Trick Room. The former can break Bronzong's Mental Herb with Taunt and force it to revert the dimensions with Encore, while the latter can utilize Imprison to stop all variants, or utilize Heat Wave in the sun to OHKO any variant lacking an Occa Berry. Bronzong's bulk might be decent, but it lacks the HP to take double STAB-boosted Surf and Heat Wave, making Ninetales and Politoed very good counters due to their weather setting abilities. Tornadus and Thundurus are also very good counters, as they can stop non-Mental Herb Bronzong with a priority Taunt, and are capable of stalling out Trick Room with a priority Substitute, should Bronzong manage to set Trick Room up. The latter deserves a special mention, as it resists Gyro Ball and can maim Bronzong with a STAB Thunder. Overall, Bronzong's bulk, although respectable, will fall to the might of several STAB-boosted moves due to the robot's lack of reliable recovery.</p>