[Overview]

<p>Cresselia is one of the bulkiest Pokemon in all of VGC, excluding a few Ubers from VGC 2010. With her incredible bulk, Cresselia is able to take large amounts of damage with relative ease, making her a reliable user of Trick Room. With a vast movepool to complement her bulk, Cresselia becomes an amazing supporter supplying things such as dual screens, Helping Hand, and ways to lower the opponent's Speed. When it comes to the attractive combination of support versatility and high bulk, few Pokemon stand out as much as Cresselia.</p>

[SET]
name: /me cresselias
move 1: Icy Wind / Thunder Wave
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Light Screen / Reflect
move 4: Helping Hand / Rest
item: Sitrus Berry / Chesto Berry
nature: Calm
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set utilizes Cresselia's excellent bulk and fantastic movepool to create a powerful support Pokemon. Each time Icy Wind hits an opponent, their Speed decreases. Thunder Wave is also another option to regulate Speed but gets no use against Pokemon such as Garchomp or Excadrill, or Pokemon with Lightningrod on the field. Psychic gives Cresselia an attacking option if she gets taunted or needs to quickly KO a weakened Pokemon. Light Screen or Reflect make great choices for helping your team's defensive capabilities. The move you use can depend on what kind of attacks your team is weak to. If you have trouble with moves such as Surf, Discharge, or other special attacks, Light Screen would be the preferred choice; if many of your Pokemon have issues with physical attacks such as Rock Slide or Earthquake, Reflect is the obvious choice. A great supporting move Cresselia can use is Helping Hand, which boosts her partner's attacks, gaining significant KOs. Rest is also an option in tandem with Chesto Berry, helping Cresselia last longer as a supporter in matches.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The choice of item depends on what kind of recovery you would prefer. Sitrus Berry is great quick recovery for matches, while Chesto Berry is preferred for use with Rest to keep Cresselia awake. However, it can serve use without Rest by defending Cresselia against sleep inducing moves. Levitate is Cresselia's only ability and provides a Ground-type immunity, meaning partners such as Garchomp can spam Earthquake. A Calm nature can be used to add onto Cresselia's special bulk. The EV spread aims to provide as much special bulk as possible to tank those common spread moves, such as Surf, Discharge, and Blizzard, while cushioning against strong special Ghost-type moves, such as Shadow Ball. An EV spread of 252 HP / 28 SpA / 230 SpD gives Cresselia the ability to 2HKO 252 HP Hitmontop and Hariyama. This spread also works well with Ice Beam to get easy 2HKOs on Thundurus, Tornadus, and Landorus. You can replace Psychic on the set to compensate for the other kind of screen support you chose, giving the classic dual screen coverage to fend off assaults from both attacking stats. Protect also makes a good choice, keeping Cresselia alive longer with prediction. Cresselia can use Trick Room on this set to counter opposing Trick Room users, or to regulate the speed of the game when you know the opposition outspeeds Cresselia's partners.</p>

<p>Cresselia, being the great supporter it is, can pair with lots of different Pokemon, especially with hard hitting Pokemon such as Garchomp or Abomasnow who benefit from Helping Hand. Slow bulky Pokemon are excellent partners for Cresselia because of the way she can change the tempo of the game with Trick Room, Icy Wind, or Thunder Wave. Tyranitar and other Dark-types provide trouble for Cresselia while she is supporting her team, so having ways to take these kinds of Pokemon out immensely extends Cresselia's longevity. A Pokemon with Intimidate, such as Hitmontop, Salamence, or Gyarados, is a great partner to weaken physical attacks that would otherwise heavily dent Cresselia.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Setter
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Psychic
move 3: Helping Hand / Safeguard
move 4: Light Screen / Reflect
item: Sitrus Berry / Mental Herb
nature: Sassy / Relaxed
evs: 252 HP / 60 Def / 196 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>In this metagame, Cresselia is no doubt the best Trick Room set-up user. Psychic helps KO worn down Pokemon and provides a nice way to deal out huge damage to the common Fighting-types. Cresselia can also remain as a supporter and maximize her team's offensive potential with Helping Hand, boosting her partner's moves such as Earthquake or Rock Slide. One of the most annoying ways people deal with Trick Room is to put all of the Pokemon to sleep. This creates a better opportunity for them to stall and KO your Pokemon while taking no damage. You can solve this problem with Safeguard. Screens also make a fine choice, as they help Pokemon set up and are usually successful in VGC. The screen to use depends on what support the team needs. If you have trouble with special attacks, Light Screen would be the screen of choice, while Reflect is the obvious choice for defending against physical attacks.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Cresselia will be taking a lot of damage in matches, so Sitrus Berry is the item of choice for quick recovery. If you have trouble with Sitrus Berry or Taunt users, Mental Herb is a completely fine option to be able to set Trick Room immediately without being Taunted. Levitate is Cresselia's only ability and provides a Ground-type immunity, meaning partners such as Garchomp can spam Earthquake. A Sassy nature gives more special bulk and might be preferred to take powerful weather boosted moves. A Relaxed nature allows Cresselia to take physical hits better and still have some special bulk from the given EV spread. The EV spread is just an all around build to better tank more hits. As a Trick Room setter, she will commonly find herself being double targeted, necessitating an all-around bulky build to be successful in surviving a lot of the time. Protect can still keep Cresselia alive longer with good prediction.</p>

<p>Because this set is dedicated to setting up Trick Room, Pokemon that can effectively utilize Trick Room, such as Rhyperior and Snorlax, are some of the best partners for Cresselia. Fake Out users, such as Scrafty and Hariyama, are wonderful for Cresselia as they can disable a threat for one turn, which is enough for Cresselia to set up Trick Room. These kinds of Pokemon can also give Cresselia safety from Dark-types such as Tyranitar and Bisharp. Strong attackers with Intimidate work well with Cresselia, cushioning her against physical attacks. Sadly, not many Intimidate users are slow enough for optimal Trick Room use.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Cresselia is one of the few Pokemon that can use a Calm Mind set in VGC. However, flinches or full paralyses can be annoying if you're trying to set up. A Bold nature can be used in tandem with an EV spread of 252 HP / 252 Def / 4 SpD to wall physical threats better. Psycho Shift and Toxic or Flame Orb combination is cool to try to spread around status ailments and stop physical attackers. Moonlight can be used for recovery, but with weather changing so much in this metagame, the amount recovered will vary. Lunar Dance can be used to sacrifice a weakened Cresselia to heal a weakened teammate to full health. Magic Coat can bounce back status moves that can be troublesome to your team. With a Choice item, Cresselia can utilize Trick to force opponents to use moves such as Protect. Recycle can be used if Cresselia has Sitrus Berry to provide an easy constant form of recovery. Psyshock can be used as an alternative to Psychic to hit Blissey and Chansey harder. Gravity can serve as an option for Cresselia to set up easily. However it has the downside of countering the effects of Levitate.</p> 

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Fake Out and Taunt both hurt Cresselia by preventing it from supporting its teammates, by either flinching it for one turn or disabling its non-attacking moves for three turns. Strong attackers such as Tyranitar, Bisharp, and Metagross can be troublesome with their appropriate Gems. As far as special attackers go, nothing can OHKO Cresselia without a critical hit. However, opponents such as Chandelure and Volcarona can 2HKO Cresselia with Shadow Ball or Bug Buzz. Imprison users with Trick Room prevent Cresselia from setting up Trick Room. Roar also prevents Cresselia from setting up Trick Room, as it phazes Cresselia out before it can set up.</p>