[Overview]

<p>Crobat might not see much use in VGC when compared to standard threats such as Metagross, but this does not mean it isn't worth using. It actually finds itself able to handle utility Fake Out users, such as Hitmontop and Mienshao, pretty well with its access to Inner Focus and a powerful STAB, Flying Gem-boosted Acrobatics. Crobat is also one of the fastest unboosted Pokemon in the tier with its amazing base 130 Speed. All in all, Crobat is certainly a Pokemon who can tear through the opposition if used properly, but one wrong choice will easily make it dead weight.</p>

[SET]
name: Anti-Lead
move 1: Acrobatics
move 2: Super Fang
move 3: Tailwind / Taunt
move 4: Protect
item: Flying Gem
nature: Jolly
ability: Inner Focus
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With the prevalence of Fighting-type Pokemon in VGC 2012, STAB Acrobatics is an amazing move to have, hitting strong physical attackers such as Scrafty, Hitmontop, and Hariyama very hard. For the Pokemon that resist Acrobatics, namely Steel-types such as Metagross and Bronzong, Super Fang can be used to strip off half of their health, the only downside being its inability to hit Ghost-types. Tailwind is a great support move to help teammates outspeed fast threats such as Latios and Tornadus, and Crobat can easily set it up with its excellent Speed. Taunt can be used as an alternative to stop Trick Room and Tailwind from being set up, and can even prevent the use of Protect and Substitute. Protect is standard, helping Crobat shield itself from powerful attacks from the likes of Latios and Terrakion while Crobat's partner deals with these threats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Flying Gem gives a one-time boost to Acrobatics, ensuring that you can get in at least one hard hit with Crobat. The EV spread simply maximizes Crobat's Attack and Speed so that it can hit as hard and fast as possible, while a Jolly nature lets Crobat outspeed almost every unboosted Pokemon in VGC, as well as Speed tie with Aerodactyl and Jolteon. An alternative EV spread of 36 HP / 252 Atk / 220 Spe can be used to give Crobat slightly more bulk and still outspeed all unboosted Pokemon except Aerodactyl, Jolteon, and other Crobat. Inner Focus is the ability of choice to help deal with Fake Out users such as Hitmontop and Mienshao, who can otherwise create openings for their team to attack with a guaranteed flinch.</p>

<p>Crobat, being able to handle Fake Out users itself, actually pairs well with fast Fake Out users such as Ambipom and Mienshao, who can clear out offensive threats for it with one move. Mienshao can be especially handy due to its access to Wide Guard to block spread moves such as Discharge and Rock Slide. Pokemon who are often outsped by fast threats such as Garchomp and Latios can make great teammates if Crobat runs Tailwind, as it helps them to outspeed and OHKO these threats. Crobat can also fit into a rain team pretty well, as its weaknesses are covered by common rain boosted Pokemon such as Ludicolo and Scizor. Terrakion is a good partner who can take advantage of the Tailwind set up by Crobat to spam Rock Slide and Earthquake. Speaking of Earthquake, Crobat pairs well with Earthquake users such as Garchomp and Mamoswine. Hitmontop also makes a good partner, as it can support Crobat well with Intimidate, Fake Out, and Wide Guard, while nailing troublesome Ghost- and Psychic-types with Sucker Punch.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Crobat can run Brave Bird to OHKO threats such as Latios and Gengar, who can survive Acrobatics and KO back, but it will take a huge amount of recoil. An Adamant nature is also an option, particularly with Brave Bird. U-turn might seem like a good idea to get a free switch-in and scout the opponent, but with Crobat's high Speed, the switch-in must be able to sponge attacks directed at Crobat. Crobat's excellent special movepool might make a special attacking set appear viable, but with its poor base 70 Special Attack, this is obviously a bad idea. It also has access to alternative physical coverage options in X-Scissor, Cross Poison, and Zen Headbutt, though an all-out attacking set is outclassed by more powerful Flying-types given Crobat's merely average base 90 Attack stat. Running Heat Wave with a Rash nature is also an option, as this allows Crobat to deal heavy damage to Steel-type checks such as Metagross and Scizor. Crobat can also take advantage of its high Speed and run Hypnosis, but its accuracy makes it highly unreliable. Infiltrator allows Crobat to hit through dual screens and inflict status through Safeguard, but the loss of Inner Focus will make it vulnerable to Fake Out. Lastly, with its high Speed, Crobat can run Fly to dodge all damage for a turn and allow its partner to take out a threat, but it will be highly vulnerable the next turn; such a strategy is also extremely predictable, and the opponent can either get what is basically a free switch in or use Protect to absorb the damage.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Crobat doesn't have the worst defenses for taking hits, but being weak to several common types doesn't help its cause in any way. Zapdos means trouble for Crobat, walling its main STAB move and dealing heavy damage back with Thunderbolt; the same goes for most other Electric-types. Terrakion doesn't mind taking a Super Fang as it is primarily a frail attacker and can easily KO in return with STAB Rock Slide. Priority moves such as Sucker Punch and ExtremeSpeed will circumvent Crobat's high Speed, preventing it from wreaking havoc. Trick Room can turn Crobat's monstrous Speed against it by turning it into the slowest Pokemon on the field. Common Pokemon with Prankster, including Murkrow and Thundurus, can cripple Crobat with Thunder Wave before it can even move, rendering it virtually useless for the rest of the match.</p>