[Overview]

<p>Dugtrio is an interesting Pokemon in the VGC 2012 metagame. It might not seem like the most appealing Pokemon to use, especially when options such as Excadrill and Garchomp are available. In fact, thanks to its mere base 80 Attack and 35 / 50 / 70 defenses, Dugtrio seems appalling when compared to other attackers; however, it has a base 120 Speed stat and some nifty options for attacking and supporting, such as Final Gambit, Memento, and Reversal. Dugtrio can also serve as a trap, holding Intimidated foes down until they're KOed.</p>

[SET]
name: Suicide Attacker
move 1: Memento / Final Gambit
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Reversal / Sucker Punch
move 4: Protect
item: Focus Sash
ability: Arena Trap / Sand Veil
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Dugtrio is as frail as can be, which means that it won't be an attacker that will occupy the field for a very long time. Furthermore, even if it manages to survive for long, it won't be doing much damage to the opposition thanks to its base 80 Attack stat. However, it is far from completely useless. Dugtrio has some interesting options in the form of Memento and Final Gambit, which give Dugtrio a role as a supporting attacker on the field. Memento is good for severely crippling active Pokemon on the field, but should be saved for late-game, when there are no more partners the enemy could switch out to. Final Gambit is nearly the opposite of Memento in execution, in that it should be used as early in the game as possible to ensure maximum damage is dealt. Earthquake is Dugtrio's main attacking option; it collects a STAB bonus and is one of Dugtrio's strongest attacks. Reversal is an excellent option for a Pokemon as frail as Dugtrio. It has no issue being brought down to its Focus Sash, and will then be able to retaliate with Reversal. Sucker Punch can be used to hit Psychic- and Ghost-types as well, as it is Dugtrio's only priority move. Protect is amazing in the VGC metagame, especially for stalling, and provides good protection for one turn while partners help take care of threats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is the preferred item for Dugtrio, as this allows it to take on bigger threats in the metagame, such as Dragon Gem Latios and Fire Gem Chandelure, who otherwise have little problem taking care of it by tanking a hit and dealing one back. Dugtrio's Arena Trap ability works nicely with Intimidate users such as Arcanine and Salamence, as it traps weakened physical attackers, who are small threats that are easier to KO. Sand Veil is a worthy option, however, if Dugtrio is used on a sand team. A Jolly nature is optimal as it allows Dugtrio to outspeed numerous threats, such as Thundurus, Latios, and Gengar, while maximum Attack and Speed lets Dugtrio hit as hard and as fast as possible; however, an EV spread of 252 HP / 4 Atk / 252 Spe can be used if using Final Gambit.</p>

<p>Tyranitar and Hippowdon make good partners as they easily summon a sandstorm upon switching in. However, they do compound the team's weakness to Grass- and Water-type moves, so be prepared. Dugtrio can rid sand teams of troublesome threats, such as Rotom-W and Hitmontop, by crippling them with Memento, which gives your team an easy opportunity to collect some offensive momentum. Bullet Punch and Mach Punch are troublesome for Dugtrio, so it enjoys Quick Guard support from Terrakion and Hitmontop. Follow Me and Rage Powder users are also good for diverting those priority moves, as well as other moves that could KO Dugtrio. Dugtrio can be somewhat of a utility for many teams, and pairs nicely with many different Pokemon because Memento enables it to cripple potential threats for your team. In addition to Quick Guard, the aforementioned Hitmontop can also provide Wide Guard, Intimidate, and Fake Out support.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Dugtrio has few other good options in its pool of tricks. Other offensive options can be used with Sand Force, such as Pursuit, Shadow Claw, and Rock Slide, can be used, but these are weak, especially off its base 80 Attack, which pales in comparison to other offensive sand sweepers. Dugtrio has access to Beat Up, which lets it pair nicely with Lucario and Terrakion to activate Justified and wreck havoc on the opposing team. Fissure can be used for lack of a better option. It can also quickly put up Substitute, which acts similarly to Protect, and blocks incoming Sucker Punches. However, Dugtrio's Substitutes will be very weak and easily broken.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Dugtrio gets screwed over pretty easily by lots of common Pokemon in the metagame, as well as priority and spread moves. In addition, it is hit for at least neutral damage by every spread move except Rock Slide. Dugtrio particularly fears Pokemon with a base Speed stat of 120 or higher, such as Weavile and Crobat, most of whom can easily KO Dugtrio. Bulky support Pokemon, such as Cresselia and Suicune, don't really care much for any of Dugtrio attacks, or being weakened by Memento. Fake Out from Hariyama and Hitmontop can break Dugtrio's Focus Sash and leave it vulnerable to almost any attack. Trick Room often makes Dugtrio the last Pokemon to move on the field, which leaves it wide open to any attack. Abomasnow and other hail sweepers can bring Dugtrio down to its Focus Sash with Blizzard and have hail damage finish it off for good.</p>