[Overview]

<p>With the introduction of Eviolite, Dusclops has surpassed its older brother, Dusknoir, as the premier Trick Room setter in the VGC metagame. Furthermore, with its myriad support moves such as Helping Hand, it does not become a deadweight on the team after fulfilling its role of setting up Trick Room. Dusclops should be considered for any Trick Room team looking for a reliable supporter.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room 
move 1: Helping Hand
move 2: Will-O-Wisp
move 3: Trick Room 
move 4: Night Shade
item: Eviolite
nature: Sassy
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpDef
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>One of the more common ways teams try to stop Trick Room from going up is by fainting the Trick Room user; with Dusclops's incredible bulk along with Eviolite, outright KOing Dusclops is difficult to do, barring very strong attackers that can hit Dusclops super effectively, such as Tyranitar and Zoroark. Another common method used by opposing teams to stop Trick Room is to Fake Out the user; as Dusclops is immune to Normal-type attacks, it is protected from this method and is therefore able to set up Trick Room without hindrance. Will-O-Wisp is used to cripple physical attackers such as Tyranitar and Garchomp, cutting their Attack in half, further boosting Dusclops's ability to tank physical attacks. Helping Hand is used to support Dusclops's teammate; users of spread moves such as Heat Wave and Rock Slide enjoy the extra boost in power provided by Helping Hand, as it can allow attacks that would normally not OHKO opponents to reach that critical plateau. Finally, Night Shade allows Dusclops to dish out consistent damage, while preventing it from being completely shut down by Taunt.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>252 HP EVs are used to boost Dusclops's relatively low HP stat to reasonable levels. 252 Special Defense EVs are used, as Will-O-Wisp already helps to cushion Dusclops against physical attacks. The only item that should be considered for Dusclops is Eviolite; this is the crucial component that allows Dusclops to be considered over Dusknoir, as the latter does everything much more effectively when Dusclops is not holding an Eviolite. When using Helping Hand, it is not advised for the partner to use spread moves that hit Dusclops in the process, such as Earthquake and Surf, as Dusclops has no reliable way of recovering HP. It should be noted that Helping Hand is a Pokemon XD exclusive move, meaning obtaining a decent Dusclops on a retail cart can be a hassle. Any teammate that can take advantage of Trick Room and can use spread moves is a friend of Dusclops; Chandelure, Hippowdon, Tyranitar, Heatran, and Gastrodon (with Muddy Water) all function well under Trick Room and are able to use spread moves that are further boosted by Helping Hand. Teammates that also resist Dark-type attacks such as Steel-, Dark-, and Fighting-types are greatly helpful; Intimidate Hitmontop is one useful teammate, as it can switch into Dark-type attacks aimed at Dusclops, and in the event that Dusclops is unable to use Will-O-Wisp, can lower the enemy's Attack stat.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Dusclops can also run an anti-Trick Room set by using Imprison over Night Shade, shutting down the opponent's Trick Room user. Seismic Toss is an option over Night Shade, as the difference between them is nominal (immunities to one or the other); be warned however, as Chandelure is immune to both Will-O-Wisp and Seismic Toss, which are Dusclops's two main avenues of dealing damage. Therefore, it is preferable to use Night Shade in order to hit the more common Chandelure. Protect can be used over Night Shade; however, this renders Dusclops as a total Taunt bait. Furthermore, with its defenses, Dusclops usually has no need for Protect, as it is able to easily survive most hits while its partner can take out the threat. Pain Split is Dusclops's only method of recovery; if Pain Split is used, Dusclop should use 0 HP EVs in order to maximize the amount of recovery it receives. Dusclops is also able to run Rain Dance and Sunny Day; however, its inability to hold weather lengthening items renders it a mediocre user. Confuse Ray can be used to stir up confusion in the enemy ranks, but is quite unreliable. Finally, Grudge or Destiny Bond are viable options, though they are quite gimmicky.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The best way to shut down Dusclops is by using Taunt, as it renders Dusclop unable to use its supporting techniques and set up Trick Room, making Night Shade or Seismic Toss its only option. Failing that, strong super effective attacks such as Crunch from Tyranitar, or Dark Pulse from Zoroark and Hydreigon are good ways to inflict a great deal of damage on Dusclops; however, beware of Will-O-Wisp from Dusclops if using a physical attacker to wear Dusclops down.</p>