[Overview]

<p>A Trick Room staple for years, Dusknoir found its usage dropping quickly once its pre-evolution, Dusclops, got a defense boost in the form of Eviolite. While it may not tank the hits its pre-evolution does, Dusknoir is still able to set up Trick Room with impunity, and utilize helpful items Dusclops cannot. It again trumps Dusclops by having a much higher base 100 Attack from which it can take advantage of its own Trick Room. Although many overlook these aspects and use Dusclops, Dusknoir is a fantastic Pokemon for setting up and abusing Trick Room.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Will-O-Wisp
move 3: Shadow Punch / Shadow Sneak
move 4: Helping Hand
item: Mental Herb / Lum Berry / Sitrus Berry
nature: Sassy
evs: 236 HP / 36 Def / 236 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Dusknoir can help both itself and its allies by setting up Trick Room. Setting up Trick Room allows the slowest Pokemon to go first; with Dusknoir's poor Speed, this means it will almost always be going first. Will-O-Wisp neuters physical attackers, especially Dark-types looking to hit Dusknoir for super effective damage, such as Bisharp and Tyranitar. In the third slot, Shadow Punch gives Dusknoir a reliable STAB move that never misses, though Shadow Sneak has priority and is only weaker than Shadow Punch by 20 Base Power. Helping Hand provides Dusknoir with the ability to boost the power of its partner's attacks by 50%, something few other Pokemon can boast.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The item choice is what really distinguishes Dusknoir from Dusclops. While Dusclops is forced to use Eviolite, Dusknoir can choose from a myriad of items. Mental Herb wastes an opposing Taunt and allows Dusknoir to always get off a Trick Room on the first turn. Due to the popularity of Spore users, a Lum Berry may be used as a way to evade the Sandman and pull off a Trick Room; however, a Sitrus Berry provides Dusknoir with additional longevity and allows it to get away with not using Pain Split. A Sassy nature and 0 Speed IVs make Dusknoir as slow as possible, so it can almost always move first in Trick Room. 236 HP and Special Defense EVs bulk up Dusknoir, allowing it to take many special-based attacks with ease, while Will-O-Wisp keeps physical attackers at bay. 36 EVs are put into Defense in order to allow Dusknoir to survive a Crunch from Tyranitar, even without a Sitrus Berry.</p>

<p>Any Pokemon that can aid Dusknoir in its quest to set up Trick Room is greatly appreciated as a partner. Pokemon that utilize Fake Out, namely Scrafty and Hariyama, are great partners for Dusknoir. In addition to utilizing Fake Out, Scrafty and Hariyama have low Speed, allowing them to function very well in Trick Room. Amoonguss, a longtime staple of Trick Room teams, is a highly recommended teammate, drawing attacks away from Dusknoir with Rage Powder and taking threats out of action with its 100% accurate Spore. Rhyperior and Conkeldurr are but two examples of the slow, yet hard-hitting Pokemon that love taking advantage of the Trick Room environment Dusknoir brings, in addition to the boost in attacking power provided by Helping Hand.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>It must be noted that a Dusknoir with Helping Hand and flawless IVs is considerably difficult to obtain in-game, only being available via the GameCube iterations of the series, namely Pokemon XD: Gale of Darkness. A realistic goal would be attempting to get a Dusknoir with IVs of 28 or higher. Because of this handicap, Protect may be used instead in order to provide Dusknoir with a damage-free turn. Pain Split provides a way to recover HP and hurt opponents at the same time and with Dusknoir's low HP, it will often receive health while the foe will likely lose it. Dusknoir has a plethora of physical options in its movepool, yet sadly finds itself lacking the necessary moveslots to utilize them. Ice Punch could be useful against the Grass-type Spore users that ruin Dusknoir's day, such as Amoonguss and Parasect. Earthquake, Rock Slide, Fire Punch, Thunderpunch, and Brick Break are all moves that seem useful on paper but can't hit as hard as one would like in application. Imprison is an option to shut down other Trick Room users, as well as to disable moves detrimental to Dusknoir's teammates, such as Will-O-Wisp. Speaking of disabling, Disable provides a way to shut down Choice users that spam powerful moves. Gravity seems as if it could be decent, though between setting up both it and Trick Room, time will be short to actually utilize it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Taunt completely shuts Dusknoir down, and though a Mental Herb remedies this, one can still Taunt again to completely cripple the ghoul. Once Taunted, Pokemon utilizing Sucker Punch such as Hitmontop and Shiftry can rip Dusknoir apart, as it is forced to attack. Though few Pokemon can OHKO Dusknoir, it still has much to fear from strong attackers. Dark-type Pokemon such as Weavile and Honchkrow can smack Dusknoir with a super effective STAB move, though they must watch out for a Will-O-Wisp in return. Chandelure can soak up Will-O-Wisp, boosting its Fire-type STAB via Flash Fire, and proceed to murder Dusknoir with either its boosted Fire STAB or a super effective Shadow Ball. Additionally, Chandelure can run Imprison which, when coupled with Trick Room, renders Dusknoir unable to set up.</p>