[Overview]

<p>Garchomp has been a force to be reckoned with since its release in DPP, and not much has changed going into BW. Its very high base 130 Attack, clutch base 102 Speed, and natural bulk allow it to be a potent threat in VGC 2012.</p>

[SET]
name: Standard Attacker
move 1: Dragon Claw
move 2: Earthquake
move 3: Rock Slide / Substitute
move 4: Protect
item: Yache Berry / Dragon Gem
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Garchomp is a fairly straightforward Pokemon. Earthquake is Garchomp's main offensive option, providing powerful spread damage. Dragon Claw is Garchomp's other STAB, and it hits Pokemon that are immune or resistant to Earthquake such as Ludicolo and Zapdos. Rock Slide provides more spread damage and also hurts Flying-types. Because of the reduction in power to spread moves, however, Rock Slide actually does less damage to a single target than Dragon Claw. Therefore, Substitute can be used instead as it eases prediction for Garchomp against slower foes and can give you a huge advantage on a predicted Protect. Finally, Protect serves its standard purposes in doubles: giving Garchomp's partner time to take out threats, easing prediction, and stalling out field effects.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Yache Berry protects Garchomp from the extremely common Ice Beam and Blizzard, as well as Hidden Power Ice. The extra protection allows Garchomp to live much longer. If you are unconcerned with guarding Garchomp from Ice-type attacks, a Dragon Gem can be used instead. Dragon Gem allows Garchomp to OHKO other Garchomp, a huge advantage on an otherwise neutral playing field. Another item choice, Haban Berry, allows Garchomp to handle Latios better. In general, Yache is the better option because Ice-type attacks are much more widespread than Dragon-type ones. Even if Garchomp holds a Haban Berry, Latios still OHKOes with Dragon Gem and comes close to guaranteeing an OHKO with Life Orb. Additionally, opposing Garchomp will not OHKO Haban-less Garchomp with Dragon Claw unless they have an Adamant nature, which does not even guarantee an OHKO. Focus Sash can be used to save Garchomp from both of its weaknesses, but it requires you to keep Garchomp safe from Fake Outs, Rock Slides, Heat Waves, and other weak attacks in order to work. Hail damage will also break Garchomp's Focus Sash, making it nearly useless against Abomasnow. Despite the fact that Jolly Garchomp will actually lose 1v1 to Adamant Garchomp, Jolly is used because of the numerous Pokemon that fall between the two Speeds, such as positive Speed Landorus and Volcarona. Sand Veil is the superior ability if Garchomp has sandstorm support, as it provides an opportunity for a potentially game-breaking miss against Garchomp. However, without sandstorm being present, Rough Skin is the superior ability as Sand Veil would be useless.</p>

<p>Crunch is a viable option for Garchomp if you dislike both Rock Slide and Substitute. It does more damage to Cresselia than anything else in Garchomp's arsenal aside from the unreliable Outrage and also allows Garchomp to do at least decent damage to Bronzong while hoping for Defense drops. Garchomp's best teammates are obviously Pokemon that are immune to Earthquake, whether it be through Levitate or a Flying typing. The most famous partner is Zapdos, which completes the well known "ZapChomp" combo when paired together with Garchomp. Other competent partners include Yanmega, Gengar, and Cresselia. Cresselia is especially noteworthy because it can use Icy Wind to drop Latios's Speed so that Garchomp can outspeed it. Cresselia can also use Helping Hand to power up Garchomp's Earthquake. Tyranitar provides good support to Garchomp, especially if Garchomp is using Substitute. Tyranitar activates Sand Veil for Garchomp and gets rid of hail which, combined with Substitute damage, can eat through Garchomp's HP quickly. Clearly you don't want both Tyranitar and Garchomp out at the same time often due to Tyranitar's weakness to Earthquake, but as a switch-in to Blizzard Tyranitar functions well.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Garchomp's other options are limited, but it does have a few. As previously mentioned, Crunch and Focus Sash are both viable options over the standard set if they fit your team better. Dual Chop can be used to break through Focus Sashes, Substitutes, and Haban Berries. However, there is very little that Garchomp will be able to KO through Focus Sash or Haban, and Substitute isn't common enough to warrant the drop in Accuracy from Dragon Claw. Garchomp's only other real offensive option is a Fire-type attack: either Fire Fang or Fire Blast. The extra coverage on Steel-types such as Bronzong, Scizor, and Ferrorthorn can be useful. Garchomp can use Sandstorm to activate its own Sand Veil and remove opposing weathers, but it is often easier to bring in Tyranitar. Dragon Tail can be used to check Trick Room, as its priority is slightly higher than Trick Room's, allowing Garchomp to force the Trick Room user out before it can set up. A choice set with either Choice Band or Choice Scarf is viable. A boosting set with Swords Dance can be used, but Garchomp will rarely find the time to set up. Finally, Double Team in conjunction with Substitute, Leftovers, and Sand Veil can make Garchomp very difficult to take down.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Choice Scarf Abomasnow makes one of the best checks to Garchomp, often outspeeding both Garchomp and its partner and threatening them with a 100% accurate Blizzard. The fact that Garchomp is usually paired with a Flying-type does nothing to help the situation. Icy Wind Cresselia is one of the most solid counters to Garchomp, breaking Garchomp's Yache Berry, dropping its Speed, and dealing some damage. Latios outspeeds and poses an immediate threat with Draco Meteor, but if Garchomp is able to get a Speed boost (such as Tailwind from Zapdos), then Garchomp is the one threatening the knock out. Finally, Bronzong stops Garchomp cold and can use the turns to set up screens, set up Trick Room, or just use Gyro Ball.</p>