[Overview]

<p>Gengar is a fast and frail hard hitting attacker, boasting an outstanding base 130 Special Attack and a great base 110 Speed. While often overshadowed by Chandelure, Gengar has a few things Chandelure doesn't, namely a higher Speed stat and a lack of weakness to Water-type attacks. Gengar is a reliable Pokemon when looking for a Ghost-type attacker. </p>

[SET]
name: Casper the Unfriendly Ghost
move 1: Shadow Ball
move 2: Thunderbolt / Sludge Bomb
move 3: Hidden Power Ice / Focus Blast
move 4: Protect
item: Ghost Gem / Focus Sash
nature: Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set aims to counter common Pokemon while also dealing massive damage without support. Shadow Ball is Gengar's most important STAB dealing massive damage to anything that doesn't resist it, while tearing through Pokemon it hits super effectively. Thunderbolt is useful for countering common Water-types, often 2HKOing them due to Gengar's fantastic Special Attack stat. Depending on your team, Sludge Bomb can be used instead of Thunderbolt if Electric-type coverage isn't needed, giving Gengar a second STAB move as well as a way to OHKO 4 / 0 Ludicolo and Breloom. Hidden Power Ice not only provides excellent type coverage alongside Thunderbolt, but it also 2HKOes common threats such as Garchomp, Tornadus, and Thundurus. However, remember that Tornadus and Thundurus are faster than Gengar, so Tailwind support is crucial. Focus Blast deals damage to Tyranitar, although the accuracy leaves something to be desired. Protect is considered a staple in VGC, allowing you to shield your Pokemon for a turn and potentially eliminate the threat.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The item choice comes down to personal preference. A Ghost Gem allows Gengar to OHKO Latios and 2HKO Dusclops and any Cresselia that have little Special Defense investment. However, a Focus Sash can be used if you're worried about Gengar's flaky defenses, as most Psychic- or Ghost-type attacks will OHKO it. Gengar needs as much Speed and Special Attack as possible to tie and OHKO Latios, while dealing as much damage as possible to Cresselia. In addition those listed above, Gengar can use a few other moves to counter specific Pokemon. Disable can be used instead of either Thunderbolt or Hidden Power Ice to shut down some of Gengar's counters. With good prediction, Gengar can also disable Hitmontop and Toxicroak's Sucker Punch, leaving both Pokemon unable to KO Gengar. If Focus Blast's accuracy isn't appealing, Hidden Power Fighting can be used instead, but the drop in power is noticeable. Gengar benefits greatly with Infernape as a teammate since Infernape can use Fake Out to assure Gengar will beat Latios and deal massive damage to Tyranitar with Close Combat.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Gengar can use Confuse Ray if you're feeling lucky, but this is generally an unreliable strategy. With a Focus Sash, Destiny Bond can be deadly if used with proper prediction; however due to double targeting and weather, its success rate is low. Taunt can be used, but Prankster Pokemon and faster users severely outclass Gengar at utilizing it. Substitute can also be used; however, Gengar needs as much of its HP as possible. Though Will-O-Wisp hampers physical attackers, Gengar does not have the bulk to survive an attack in the turn it takes to burn the opponent. In addition to these options, Gengar can also learn Icy Wind to control speed or even Giga Drain if you're worried about Swampert. Also with a Choice Scarf and a Modest nature, Gengar can be used successfully, outspeeding Ludicolo in the rain and OHKOing it with Sludge Bomb. Gengar also has access to Explosion, but it will not do much damage coming off of Gengar's base 65 Attack. To capitalize on the element of surprise, Gengar can also run Trick Room.</p>

[Check and Counters]

<p>Tyranitar is a great check to Gengar, shrugging off its attacks and OHKOing it with Crunch. Sucker Punch users can also check Gengar easily with good prediction. If Gengar loses the speed tie against Latios, Latios's Psychic OHKOes Gengar. While Cresselia takes a lot of damage from Shadow Ball, it can retaliate with Thunder Wave, rendering Gengar useless for the rest of the match. Cresselia can also utilize STAB Psychic to deal massive damage to Gengar without any investment in Special Attack. Finally, because of Gengar's awful defenses, it can be swiftly dealt with by any strong offensive Pokemon with a decent STAB attack.</p>