[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Gliscor seems like a poor choice for a sandstorm team compared to its competition. Sure it can Earthquake and it's immune to other Earthquakes, but why would you use Gliscor instead of Landorus? Besides, you'd just be racking up your Water- and Ice-type weaknesses, right? However, upon closer inspection, one finds that Gliscor can be immune to status, has access to the powerful Acrobatics, and can support the entire team with Tailwind, all of which are most appreciated on sandstorm teams in a metagame where Abomasnow reigns and sleep clause is non-existent. Make use of these assets, and you'll find that Gliscor can prove to be a very handy teammate in just about any sandstorm team.</p>

[SET]
name: Acrobat
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Acrobatics
move 3: Tailwind
move 4: Protect
item: Flying Gem
nature: Adamant
ability: Sand Veil
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is the more offensive version of Gliscor, taking advantage of its amazing STAB move: Acrobatics. Thanks to Flying Gem, Acrobatics skyrockets from a modest 55 Base Power to a monstrous 165 Base Power. Even after Flying Gem has been consumed, it still reaches a respectable 110 Base Power. With such a powerful attack, Gliscor is suddenly able to take on top tier threats such as Hitmontop and Abomasnow, OHKOing the former most of the time even after an Intimidate Attack drop. Tailwind can also be a great boon to your team, enabling it to outspeed threats and KO them before they can move. Earthquake is a staple on any physical Ground-type, and Protect allows Gliscor to scout an odd Hidden Power Ice or Ice Beam. The EVs allow Gliscor to hit as hard as possible while allowing it to take Dragon Claws and weaker specially based moves more easily.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If your Gliscor has a need for speed, you can opt for a spread of 124 HP / 252 Atk / 132 Spe, which allows Gliscor to outspeed neutral base 80 Speed Pokemon. If you really want Gliscor to outspeed Pokemon such as Timid Chandelure and Jolly Mamoswine before Tailwind, you can use a spread of 12 HP / 252 Atk / 244 Spe, but it detracts from Gliscor's good defenses. If your team doesn't need Tailwind, Ice Fang can go in Tailwind's place to hit most Dragon-types harder than Acrobatics. Sand Veil can help Gliscor get a Substitute up, and can go over Protect if you're feeling lucky; if you don't, however, Hyper Cutter can be used over Sand Veil to suppress Intimidate. This is especially helpful against Salamence and Arcanine, allowing Gliscor to deal nice chunks of damage to either of them with a super effective move.</p>

<p>Offensive Gliscor enjoys Tyranitar's Sand Stream to help guarantee some OHKOs and break Focus Sashes. Gliscor can help Tyranitar out as well, given its talent for KOing the Fighting-types that Tyranitar loathes. With Tailwind, Garchomp finds itself able to outspeed and OHKO Latios before the latter can respond, allowing it to spam Earthquake to its heart's content. Zapdos is able to use Heat Wave, which can prove useful against hail teams, and can also form a combination of Discharge and Earthquake with Gliscor. Terrakion and Infernape can KO Ice-types that give Gliscor shivers with their respective STAB moves. Since your opponent might try to stall out Tailwind with Protect, Choice Scarf Rotom-W can lock them into Protect with Trick, while being able to zap rain abusers with an Electric move of choice. If you really want to abuse Poison Heal with this Gliscor, you can Toxic your own Gliscor with one of your Pokemon.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Tank
move 1: Earthquake
move 2: Rock Slide / Ice Fang
move 3: Tailwind
move 4: Protect
item: Toxic Orb
nature: Jolly / Adamant
ability: Poison Heal
evs: 208 HP / 20 Atk / 136 Def / 4 SpD / 140 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set capitalizes on Gliscor's brilliant tanking skills, immunity to status, and good coverage. Earthquake is any physical Ground-type's favorite move, and Rock Slide complements it by hitting Flying-types super effectively. However, you might find that Gliscor's partners have Rock Slide as well, making its Rock Slide somewhat redundant. Ice Fang is another good move that complements Earthquake, and it even 2HKOes Dragonite with one turn of sandstorm damage. Protect is a staple on any Poison Heal Gliscor, allowing it to activate its Toxic Orb and annoy the opponent in general. Tailwind is a Dream World exclusive move (in conjunction with Poison Heal, that is) that any non-Trick Room team appreciates having. However, Tailwind cannot be used with any of its Egg moves, such as Feint. The EVs make sure Gliscor outspeeds neutral base 80 Speed Pokemon such as Chandelure and unboosted Blaziken. The HP EVs make Gliscor's HP divisible by 8, which garners more Poison Heal recovery, while the leftover EVs are put into Attack.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If you want your Gliscor to pack a little more punch, you can use an EV spread of 116 HP / 252 Atk / 140 Spe. 132 Speed EVs for Adamant Gliscor and 140 Speed EVs for a Jolly variant is probably the lowest you'd want to go since it will still let Gliscor outpaces the myriad of Pokemon that sit at the base 80 Speed tier. Tyranitar is an excellent partner; it enjoys Tailwind and can help Gliscor out with passive damage. Gliscor hates Ice-types and hail teams, so strong Rock Slide users or Pokemon such as a Tyranitar with Fire Blast or Low Kick are much appreciated. If you're running a sand team, chances are you're using several Water-weak Pokemon. Gastrodon and Thundurus can help Gliscor and the rest of your team out by discouraging the use of Water-type moves. Metagross can also help Gliscor overcome its fear of the cold with Meteor Mash and Bullet Punch, while being able to run ThunderPunch to take care of Water-types. Rotom-W can also make a great partner since it is immune to Earthquake and possesses a great STAB Electric-type move for Gliscor's Water-type phobia. Since this Gliscor isn't running Acrobatics, it would be a good idea to look into a partner such as Terrakion or Chandelure. Chandelure is weak to Gliscor's Earthquake, but can OHKO many common hail abusers with a Fire-type move. Chandelure can also be used to reverse Trick Room, meaning Gliscor's Tailwind won't be wasted.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Gliscor has a few more interesting options such as Screech, Struggle Bug, Aerial Ace, and Substitute. Screech softens the opponent up so Gliscor's and its partner's Earthquakes do more damage. It also pressures the opponent to switch, which is always a risky thing to do in Doubles. Struggle Bug is perhaps a more quirky option, but it reduces the power of attacks such as Surf and Ice Beam, making Gliscor even more annoying. Aerial Ace is an option over Acrobatics if you can spare a slot, boasting 5 more points of Base Power than an unboosted Acrobatics. Gliscor can hide behind a Substitute to stall out Trick Room and rack up residual damage, but Gliscor usually can't find time to set up continuous Substitutes when it could just be firing off Tailwind and Earthquake. Facade in tandem with Toxic Orb has a whopping 140 Base Power, but Gliscor has problems fitting things into a set already, and running Earthquake and Facade as your only attacking moves leaves you powerless to Levitating Pokemon such as Bronzong and Gengar. Feint breaks enemy Protects, allowing for a surefire KO, along with being a good move to break Focus Sashes. Yache Berry can help Gliscor overcome its fear of the cold, but Gliscor finds it hard to replace Flying Gem or Toxic Orb with it. Roost can go over Protect or Tailwind when you're using Sand Veil for instant healing, though it isn't as good in practice as on paper. Gliscor can run 188 Speed EVs to outspeed Timid Rotom-A, but most Rotom-A that run Speed EVs are also equipped with Choice Scarf, so you're better off just using Tailwind or Protect against it.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>If there's anything that Gliscor hates, it's rain teams. Swift Swim abusers such as Ludicolo and Kingdra can nullify Gliscor's Tailwinds before KOing it with Ice Beam; Ludicolo even resists Earthquake. In fact, anything with a strong Ice Beam or Hidden Power Ice is a threat to Gliscor due to its Ground and Flying typing. Hail teams are fine examples of teams that contain Pokemon that can obliterate Gliscor, as Abomasnow can wipe the floor with any Gliscor not carrying Rock Slide or Acrobatics. Mamoswine and Cloyster can KO Gliscor without much trouble with Icicle Spear, even if Gliscor happens to have a Substitute up. Outside of Ice-types, bulkier Water-types such as Gyarados and Suicune can give Gliscor heartburn even without Ice-type moves. Gyarados takes pitiful amounts of damage from Rock Slide thanks to Intimidate, and can proceed to KO Gliscor with one or two Waterfalls. Suicune is in a similar boat; worse still, it hits Gliscor's weaker Special Defense.</p>