[Overview]

<p>With Zapdos being the most used Pokemon in VGC 2012, one might look at Gyarados and immediately write it off due to its crippling 4x weakness to Electric-type attacks. Although its weakness to Electric-type moves holds Gyarados back, it is not the weakling one might think. A fantastic ability in Intimidate allows it to shut down some of the top physical attackers in the game such as Hitmontop and Weavile while also backing up its teammates even further with a variety of supporting moves. An excellent Attack stat further complements Gyarados's capabilities, especially because Water is a great offensive type. All of this sets Gyarados up to do great things in the VGC 2012 metagame.</p>

[SET]
name: Intimidate Support
move 1: Waterfall
move 2: Thunder Wave / Icy Wind
move 3: Taunt / Stone Edge
move 4: Protect
item: Wacan Berry / Lum Berry
ability: Intimidate
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 52 Atk / 140 Def / 20 SpD / 44 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Utilizing Intimidate to support its teammates is what Gyarados does best. Coupled with its strong supporting moves, this set allows Gyarados to be the ultimate team player. While one might immediately start to pick out supporting moves like a kid looking at ice cream toppings, Gyarados requires some form of offense. Waterfall is arguably Gyarados's best attacking move, and is boosted by STAB, so it hits hard and also has a useful 20% chance to flinch. Gyarados isn't exactly the epitome of speed, so Thunder Wave gives it the ability to slow down foes, and allows Gyarados to imitate Togekiss's deadly paraflinch combo. If one prefers to slow down two Pokemon at once, Icy Wind does just that, although its slightly lower accuracy might be somewhat off-putting. Taunt is a great move for this set, allowing it to cripple common setup Pokemon, such as Cresselia and Dusclops. This allows Gyarados to function as a decent Trick Room counter, which, when set up, turns Gyarados's Speed-dropping moves back on itself. If one does not fear Trick Room, Stone Edge provides an additional attacking option, allowing Gyarados to hit Pokemon resistant to Water-type moves such as Abomasnow, and is Gyarados's best bet against Zapdos. Protect has been called the Swiss Army Knife of VGC, and that is a perfect representation. Its numerous uses include stalling out Trick Room, shielding Gyarados from damage, and allowing weather conditions to take down a Pokemon low on HP.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The given EV spread is enough to make one's head itch intensely, but do not fear, it has its place. Maximum HP EVs allow Gyarados to tank most attacks with ease, especially those that are physically-based. The 140 Defense EVs further boost Gyarados's physical capabilities, as do the 52 EVs invested in Attack. The 20 Special Defense EVs guarantee that it can survive a Zapdos's Thunderbolt, provided a Wacan Berry is used. The remaining 44 EVs are put in Speed in order to guarantee that it outspeeds 4 Speed Cresselia, so it can Taunt Cresselia before it can do anything. The aforementioned Wacan Berry is the main item on this set, and for good reason: Gyarados is hard-pressed to do anything if it cannot take an Electric-type attack. If one wishes to avoid type-resist berries, Gyarados can utilize a Lum Berry to great effect, making it a great switch-in to common status users, such as Cresselia and Amoonguss.</p>

<p>Intimidate is one of the best abilities in the game; it lowers both opponents' Attack stats when Gyarados switches in. Because of this, Gyarados makes a great partner for many Pokemon that would normally have trouble with physical attackers. Weavile, in particular, works well with Gyarados, appreciating the drop in power from opposing Rock-type moves Weavile loathes, while using its STAB Ice Punch to take on Zapdos and Thundurus, two of Gyarados's biggest counters. Gyarados's Flying-type allows its partner to utilize Earthquake without worrying about damaging Gyarados, further bolstering its role as a supporting Pokemon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>While Gyarados is definitely a great pick for providing support, no one said it can't eat its cake, too. An attacking set based around Dragon Dance is a viable option, and the Moxie ability Gyarados receives from the Dream World can allow it to rampage through teams after a single Dragon Dance. Ice Fang could be used if one wants to try to take on Zapdos head-to-head—and not worry as much about accuracy—though Gyarados is going to wind up being recalled to its Poke Ball for a rest, unless Zapdos is critically low on health to begin with. If a more attacking-oriented set is used, Aqua Tail is a viable alternative to Waterfall, providing a much appreciated boost in power, though it has less-than-perfect accuracy and loses out on the flinch chance. Bounce provides Gyarados with a secondary STAB, though it requires a turn to charge and the opponent can easily avoid it with Protect, reducing its effectiveness.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Zapdos has been mentioned several times previously, and with good reason. In most circumstances, Zapdos, and almost any Electric-type, can take Gyarados down with ease. Their STAB Electric moves are 4x super effective on Gyarados, and even with a Wacan Berry, it will be hard-pressed to take more than one attack. Rock-types that switch in on Gyarados, bypassing its Intimidate, hit hard with their STAB Rock Slide, though Gyarados can threaten with its own super effective Waterfall. Pokemon that are immune to or resist Water-type moves go a long way towards stopping Gyarados, especially Gastrodon and Abomasnow, though the latter must watch out for Gyarados carrying Stone Edge.</p>