[Overview] 

<p>With a base Attack stat of 125, Honchkrow is the perfect definition of what the mafia should be. With a wide movepool that consists of one of the best priority moves in the game, Sucker Punch, Honchkrow can easily pick off weakened opponents. When Honchkrow isn't using Sucker Punch, it can rip teams apart with Brave Bird, which hits an unbelievable 180 base power after the STAB boost is calculated. Also, unlike most Flying-type Pokemon, Honchkrow can hit Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon with Superpower, which has a chance to OHKO even Chople Berry Tyranitar. If that didn't make Honchkrow good enough, it also gets two viable abilities, one that makes it immune to sleep inducing moves; the other giving Honchkrow an Attack boost after every KO it gets, making that base 125 Attack stat look even scarier. However, Honchkrow has its faults. With a very disappointing (for a Flying-type, at least) base 71 Speed and thin defenses, finding an opportunity to outspeed and KO the mafia bird isn't very hard to do, especially for Pokemon that resist Sucker Punch. However, it's called the Big Boss Pokemon for a reason, as teams without an effective check to Honchkrow will get torn apart with ease.</p> 

[SET]
name: Physical
move 1: Sucker Punch
move 2: Brave Bird / Drill Peck
move 3: Superpower / Night Slash 
move 4: Protect 
item: Life Orb / Focus Sash
ability: Insomnia / Moxie
nature: Adamant 
evs: 4 HP / 252 Atk / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set maximizes the sheer power of Honchkrow by using a Life Orb. Brave Bird, boosted with a Life Orb, hits very hard and puts dents in just about anything that doesn't resist it. However, since it is resisted by Rock- and Steel-type Pokemon, Superpower is highly recommended, as it allows Honchkrow to clear out Pokemon such as Heatran and Tyranitar, which resist the Dark / Flying type combination. However, even with these powerful attacks, taking out faster Pokemon such as Latios and Chandelure is very difficult to do. Therefore, Sucker Punch is used to attack faster Pokemon such as the Lati twins, Chandelure, and Tornadus hard, OHKOing the Lati twins and Chandelure. If used with Moxie, Honchkrow gets a Attack boost while KOing a threat, which is always useful for a team. Protect is a staple in doubles as it allows Honchkrow to avoid damage, allowing its partner to take care of any threats.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>If using Superpower, Honchkrow cannot use Moxie. Don't worry though, as Insomnia makes it immune to sleep, allowing it to check Pokemon like Breloom and Amoonguss better, as well as take on sun sweepers with Sleep Powder, such as Venusaur and Jumpluff. Moxie is the best for this set, as Life Orb + Moxie boosts turn Honchkrow into an absolute monster. Using an Adamant nature means that Honchkrow has as much power as possible, as most base 70 Pokemon don't use a positive Speed nature anyway. Maximizing Speed is only useful for checking Breloom, as Honchkrow will not be able to take any of the mushroom boxer's hits. Utilizing Tailwind support Pokemon such as Whimsicott and Suicune means that Honchkrow keeps its maximum power while outpacing the opponent's team regardless of match up, and both Suicune and Whimsicott can take care of Rock-type Pokemon. In addition, Whimsicott can use Encore to make Honchkrow's sweep easier.</p>

<p>Night Slash can be used if you don't decide to use Superpower, clearing up the slot for Moxie. Drill Peck can be used if the Brave Bird recoil is just to much to handle, though there is a very noticeable power drop. If using Drill Peck, Focus Sash is now the item of choice, as it allows Honchkrow to take an attack at full health, and this is especially useful with Honchkrow's frail defenses. A Dark Gem can also be used in this set, which is really good if your team is built around Honchkrow getting a late-game sweep. Also, Honchkrow will take alot of damage thanks to Brave Bird and Life Orb, so a Pokemon with Heal Pulse, such as Lucario or Latias, makes a great partner, especially Latias as she can set up Tailwind. Choice Scarf and Moxie pair really well together, but if running a Scarf, use Jolly to outspeed Scarf Politoed and Metagross by 1 point, which can determine to tide of the match.</p>


[Other Options]

<p>There isn't much Honchkrow can use that is better off on another Pokemon. Thunder Wave can be used to slow down faster Pokemon, meaning that Honchkrow can outspeed and sweep easier, but Pokemon such as Murkrow and Cresselia pull this off better thanks to Prankster or better bulk, respectively. Power Herb + Sky Attack can be used as a one-time powerful attack, but if the opponent uses Protect as you use Sky Attack, the Power Herb is wasted. Honchkrow can set up its own Tailwind, but this means Honchkrow loses a coverage attack or Protect, so this is usually done better by bulkier Pokemon. With base 105 Special Attack, a special set can be useful, especially since it gets moves such as Air Slash and Heat Wave. Taunt can be used to stop an opposing Pokemon from setting up,like Trick Room teams, Spore users such as Breloom, or any other boosting Pokemon in the metagame. Lastly, Super Luck can be used with a Scope Lens and Night Slash to abuse the high critical hit rate. However, this is very lucked based and is not recommended.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Even a Pokemon as awesome as Honchkrow has its fair share of checks and counters. Tyranitar and Heatran make good checks, as Chople Berry and Focus Sash variants can take a Superpower and OHKO with Rock Slide or Heat Wave, respectively. However, a Life Orb Honchkrow can OHKO even a Chople Berry Tyranitar, so caution must be used if Tyranitar is your check. Zapdos is also a great check, as it resists Brave Bird and can OHKO with a STAB Thunderbolt, but a Life Orb boosted Sucker Punch will hurt. Metagross takes any attack other than the rare Heat Wave, and it can OHKO with a combination of Meteor Mash and Bullet Punch. Gyarados has Intimidate, cutting the mafia bird's Attack stat, meaning it can take a Brave Bird and also deals good damage with Waterfall or Stone Edge. Gyarados can also slow Honchkrow down with Icy Wind or Thunder Wave.</p>