[Overview]

<p>Jellicent was a superstar of VGC 2011, and it's no different in 2012. Nice bulk, along with reliable forms of recovery, makes it last longer for maximum utility. Due to this bulk and immunity to Fake Out, Jellicent makes a great Trick Room setter for the many Pokemon that can use it effectively in this metagame, such as Hariyama, Marowak, and Reuniclus. Additionally, Jellicent greatly appreciates rain support to take advantage of STAB Water Spout. However, sun teams will completely stop this if you aren't prepared. Without proper support, Jellicent is an easy target for Electric-type attacks.</p> 

[SET]
name: Trick Room Setter
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Scald / Water Spout
move 3: Shadow Ball
move 4: Protect / Ice Beam / Will-O-Wisp
item: Wacan Berry / Sitrus Berry
ability: Water Absorb
nature: Quiet
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>The main goal of this set is for Jellicent to provide team support in the form of Trick Room, so naturally Trick Room is in the first moveslot. Jellicent has a miserable time handling physical attackers, such as Bisharp and Tyranitar; therefore, the burn chance from Scald can come in handy. Alternatively, Water Spout is a more powerful STAB move, which lets Jellicent deal huge damage to the opposition if Jellicent is at full health and given rain support. Shadow Ball provides coverage against common Trick Room counters that can plague Trick Room teams, namely Musharna, Azelf, and Chandelure, who can either reverse Trick Room or Imprison your Pokemon. Shadow Ball also hits Latias and Latios harder than Ice Beam would. Finally, Protect allows Jellicent to stall for more burn damage, or just lets you keep Jellicent out of harm's way while your partner does work. You can run Ice Beam for added coverage against Grass-types, such as Whimiscott and Amoonguss, and Dragon-types, such as Garchomp, Salamance, and Dragonite, but common teammates will more than likely have Ice-type coverage moves, so this is a lesser option. Unlike Scald, Will-O-Wisp guarantees a burn if it hits, which can be useful.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Jellicent has a terrible time handling strong Electric-type attacks. Hence, Jellicent can use Wacan Berry to take some of the strongest Electric-type attacks, such as Electric Gem Thunder from a Modest Zapdos. However, if through team support of some sort, Jellicent doesn't need to worry about Electric-type attacks, Sitrus Berry is a great item to help with longevity. Water Absorb is a useful ability that gives Jellicent a real reason to be on a rain team. With it, Jellicent recovers 25% of it's health when hit by a Water-type attack, which means Jellicent's partner can spam Surf while Jellicent not only avoids damage, but in fact gains more health to live longer. A Quiet nature gives two benefits: first, it powers up Jellicent's offensive moves, ensuring maximum damage on foes, and second, it decreases Jellicent's Speed stat, making it faster under Trick Room. Special Attack investment is maximized to ensure Jellicent's attacking moves hit as hard as possible, and with the defensive EVs given, Jellicent gains enough bulk to last longer against strong special attackers, because physical attackers lose a lot of power after being burned. A 0 Speed IV gives Jellicent as low a Speed stat as possible for best use under Trick Room.</p>

<p>Politoed makes a good partner as it is able to summon rain and fire away Surf, which gives Jellicent recovery. Jellicent loves Lightningrod supporters, such as Marowak and Seaking, because with them on the field, Jellicent has no worry of being harmed by Electric-type moves outside of Discharge. Users of Explosion or Selfdestruct, such as Snorlax, Metagross, and Lickilicky, work well with Jellicent, who is immune to those attacks. Rage Powder or Follow Me users pair well with Jellicent too, as they draw in powerful attacks that the opponent will try and use to KO Jellicent before you get to do anything with it. They can even draw in Sucker Punches so Jellicent can fire away offensive attacks. Fighting-type Fake Out supporters, such as Hitmontop, Hariyama, and Scrafty, make great teammates because they can handle Dark-types with Fighting-type STAB and make them flinch with Fake Out.</p>

[SET]
name: Water Spout Attacker
move 1: Water Spout
move 2: Shadow Ball
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Protect
item: Water Gem / Sitrus Berry
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>In VGC 2011, Jellicent was a menace with Water Spout; VGC 2012 is no different. Water Spout is a powerful STAB move that gets easy KOes on all who do not resist it. Shadow Ball is another STAB move, and though it doesn't nab many notable OHKOs, it does 2HKO most Latios and Latias. As Water Spout is weakened over the course of a game, however, Shadow Ball becomes the STAB move of choice after Jellicent takes a hit. Ice Beam gives Jellicent super effective coverage to hit Dragon- and Flying-types, Tornadus and Garchomp. Protect is a common utility move in VGC; it can be used to stall, keep Jellicent protected for a turn, or prevent damage from the rare Scrappy Fake Out from Kangaskhan.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Water Gem gives Jellicent the power to hit the opposition hard with Water Spout. However, Sitrus Berry heals up Jellicent so Water Spout can still be strong after Jellicent takes some damage. Water Absorb grants Jellicent an immunity to Water-type attacks, and also allows it to replenish health when hit by a Water-type move. Water Absorb makes Jellicent a great fit for a rain team as well. Cursed Body is a nice option if team support means the Water-type immunity isn't needed. Modest is the nature of choice as Jellicent needs all the power it can get. It can run Timid, but the boost in Speed is small and not helpful. The EV spread makes Jellicent as fast and strong as possible.</p>

<p>Tailwind support is needed so Jellicent can outspeed the opponent and hit hard with a full-powered Water Spout. Tornadus and Whimiscott are great teammates as they bring priority Tailwind. Fighting-types who provide Fake Out support, such as Hitmontop, Hariyama, and Scrafty, work well because they can handle Dark-types with Fighting-type STAB and make them flinch with Fake Out. As a bonus, their STAB attacks decimate Dark-type Pokemon, such as Bisharp, Hydreigon, and Tyranitar, as well as Ferrothorn, all of whom otherwise threaten Jellicent with super effective STAB moves. Jellicent also appreciates support from Rage Powder or Follow Me users, who draw in powerful attacks targeted at Jellicent. They can even draw in Sucker Punches so Jellicent can fire off attacks with impunity. In a similar vein, Lightningrod support from the likes of Marowak and Seaking lets Jellicent better stand up to foes such as Zapdos and Thundurus. </p> 

[Other Options]

<p>Jellicent can use a Choice Scarf to outspeed threats without needing Tailwind support, but being Choice-locked into a move can put it in a tough position. To make matters worse, Jellicent will lack power if using a Timid nature. Pain Split is a a recovery option, but it's very circumstantial. Safeguard can be used to prevent Pokemon such as Amoonguss and Breloom from messing up your whole team with Spore. Confuse Ray is an option for a bulky set, but while it can stop some threats, it is also a risky tactic. Blizzard can be used over Ice Beam on an offensive set if Jellicent is paired with Abomasnow. Double Blizzard spam can be extremely effective due to the freeze chance, as well as the high power. However, Jellicent isn't immune to hail recoil, so it's definitely something to watch out for. Finally, Jellicent can run a bulky Trick Room supporter set with an EV set of 188 HP / 164 Def / 156 SpA and a Quiet nature.</p> 

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Jellicent has a major weakness to moves that hit it super effectively. As such, Pokemon to watch out for include Tyranitar, Bisharp, Ferrothorn, Breloom, Zapdos, Ludicolo, and Chandelure. Jellicent is also easily checked by bulky threats: for example, Calm Mind Cresselia can boost up and hit Jellicent hard, while Leech Seed Ferrothorn can drain Jellicent's health and stall it to death. Always be aware of Sucker Punch users when using Jellicent; Jellicent can try and make an obvious kill, but get finished off by a surprise Sucker Punch from an opposing Hitmontop or Honchcrow.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Jellicent gets the Damp ability from the Dream World, which lets it support its team by stopping pesky Explosion or Selfdestruct users. However, Jellicent itself pairs well with abusers of these moves, so if this ability were released for Jellicent, it wouldn't be worth much.</p>