[Overview]

<p>Jynx has a unique niche in VGC 2012 since she can learn both Fake Out, and a sleep inducing move—Lovely Kiss. Combine this with an excellent new dream world ability that provides great synergy with rain teams, and Jynx becomes a very potent support Pokemon. When it comes to outright attacking, Jynx is no slouch either, with above average base 95 Speed, great base 115 Special Attack, and the coveted Ice-type STAB, she is able to function well as a support Pokemon. Sadly, for all of Jynx’s positive qualities, she has an equal number of negative ones on hand. With a pathetic base 35 Defense stat, she won’t endure many attacks without a Focus Sash, and will find herself the victim of an OHKO if her opponent so much as sneezes on her. Ice typing is fantastic offensively, but it brings a horrible array of weaknesses to common attacks such as Heat Wave, Bullet Punch, and the omnipresent Rock Slide. On top of all of this, she faces stiff competition from Ludicolo and Toxicroak for a slot on most rain teams. Still, given the chance, Jynx can teach any opponent just how annoying a Sleep-inducing Pokemon in a metagame without Sleep Clause can be.</p>

[SET]

name: Support
move 1: Fake Out
move 2: Lovely Kiss
move 3: Ice Beam
move 4: Protect / Psychic
item: Focus Sash
ability: Dry Skin
nature: Timid
evs: 4 Def / 252 SpA / 252 Speed

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Fake Out and Sleep support together is what sets Jynx apart from Ludicolo and Toxicroak. Against most teams, you’ll want to Fake Out on turn one while your partner attacks, and then proceed to put problematic Pokemon to sleep with Lovely Kiss. With Jynx’s high base Speed, she can outspeed other Fake Out Users and prevent her own partner from being hit by Fake Out. When using Jynx, it’s important to drop your inhibitions from playing other metagames and remember that VGC lacks a sleep clause. Go nuts! With base 95 Speed, Lovely Kiss can be outright devastating when it hits. The remaining portion of the set is fairly self-explanatory. Ice Beam is for STAB and, coming off of Jynx’s solid base Special Attack, it’s going to hurt. Protect is one of the most useful moves in doubles and it’s no different for Jynx. Alternatively, if you want Jynx to pack a little more punch, Psychic can be used over Protect since it gains a STAB boost.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are the classic build for frail special attackers. A Timid nature with both Speed and Special Attack maximized help Jynx utilize its two best qualities. Focus Sash is a necessity with Jynx thanks to its terrible physical bulk; this will let Jynx live at least a turn outside of sun or sandstorm. Thanks to its Dry Skin ability, Jynx loves weather support in the form of rain. Politoed is an obvious teammate, providing Jynx with the rain it wants for Dry Skin and helping against Rock- and Fire-types. Thanks to Dry Skin, Jynx will happily take Surfs from her partners and receive a 25% HP bonus. Good candidates for powerful Surf users include the likes of Kingdra, Latios, and Hydreigon.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Jynx has a few extra support attacks in its movepool for use, and among them are Fake Tears, Taunt, Rain Dance, and Perish Song. If your team really needs any of these attacks, feel free to find an empty moveslot on Jynx and use whichever one you’d like. A few other notable moves, such as Helping Hand and Icy Wind, are also available, but those are Gen IV tutor moves and are incompatible with Jynx’s Dream World ability. Nasty Plot is an option, but it’s just so hard to set up in doubles. For a more gimmicky option, Trick Room is a part of Jynx’s arsenal. It's only real use is in the surprise factor. Leftovers with Dry Skin in the rain gives Jynx a ton of health, especially in conjunction with friendly Surfs. It’s best to try using Substitute when using a set like this to provide Jynx with some sort of safety net. Jynx is very frail, though, so it's tough to make a Leftovers set worthwhile. While an Ice Gem-boosted Ice Beam sounds good on paper, the lack of a Focus Sash really hurts.</p>

<p>Energy Ball, Shadow Ball, Focus Blast, and Hidden Power are the extent of Jynx’s offensive movepool. If you wish, you can slash any of those over Protect on the first set and try your luck, and see if any of those attacks alleviate certain problems on your team. A Life Orb set with three attacks and either Lovely Kiss or Fake Out might seem tempting, but Jynx needs the safety a Focus Sash provides. If you decide to use Jynx on a hail team as a defense against rain teams, Blizzard is an option for a powerful spread attack.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Unlike in other metagames, where a sleep clause is in effect, Jynx isn’t suddenly easier to counter once it has put something to sleep. While trying to defeat Jynx, sleep is just something you’ll need to work around. That said, Metagross, Scizor, and Hitmontop all love to see Jynx. All three have powerful priority attacks that can bring her down to her Focus Sash. Metagross in particular doesn’t care about Ice Beam or Psychic and only fears a Lovely Kiss. Sun teams exploit Jynx’s near x4 weakness to Fire in the sun and can KO it with the weakest Fire-type move in their arsenal. Focus Sash is neutered in the sun, as Dry Skin saps HP at the end of every turn when the sun is shining. Rock Slides from nearly anything will KO Jynx or break the sash. Notable mentions of Pokemon with Rock Slide include Garchomp and Terrakion. Blissey, Chansey, and Cresselia take next to nothing from Jynx's actual attacks and can stall her out; however, they don’t enjoy taking a Lovely Kiss at all.</p>