[Overview]

<p>Despite having the highest base Speed stat available in VGC and a decent Attack stat, Ninjask is barely used. This is partially because of its Bug / Flying typing which leaves Ninjask susceptible to common super effective Electric- and Rock-type attacks. It does not help that Ninjask has very low defenses either, but when played correctly, Ninjask can be very threatening. Ninjask also gets access to Speed Boost, which allows it to outspeed the majority of the metagame after a single boost.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: X-Scissor / Bug Bite
move 2: Aerial Ace
move 3: Dig / Baton Pass
move 4: Protect
item: Life Orb
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Since Ninjask has such a high base Speed stat to begin with, minimal investment is needed to outspeed many common threats that do not use Choice Scarf. This allows you to invest in HP, to increase Ninjask's durability. X-Scissor is Ninjask's most useful move, netting a strong super effective hit on many common Pokemon, such as Cresselia, Latios, and Tyranitar. Bug Bite is also a very viable option to eat the opposing Pokemon's type resist or Sitrus Berry, and in the latter case, giving Ninjask back one quarter of its health. Aerial Ace is on the set to provide dual STAB and is super effective on certain Pokemon that resist its Bug-type STAB move, such as Hitmontop. Dig prevents Ninjask from being walled by Steel-types, such as Metagross or Heatran, that resist X-Scissor and Aerial Ace. However, Dig may require some prediction and is easily stopped by Protect so Baton Pass is also a viable option, allowing Ninjask to pass on a Speed Boost to another Pokemon that can handle big threats. In the last slot, Protect can be used to scout the opponent's moves, or to get a free Speed Boost and come out unscathed.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Max Attack with an Adamant nature is a must, to deal out the greatest possible damage, and KO common threats. With an Adamant nature and minimal Speed investment, Ninjask is able to outspeed Latios and OHKO it with X-Scissor. The 252 HP EVs are mainly there to help Ninjask take hits. The EVs are very helpful when your opponent is using priority, as those moves would easily kill Ninjask if the HP EVs were not invested. Life Orb is used because Ninjask is easily countered without Protect, which it won't be able to use if Choice Band is the item of choice; another reason to use Life Orb is that Ninjask needs all the extra power it can get.</p>

<p>Ninjask is not perfect and cannot carry an entire team on its back; it needs teammates, like any other Pokemon. When looking for teammates for Ninjask, note that many Steel-types effectively wall Ninjask, as do many Pokemon used on weather teams. One Pokemon that resists most of Ninjask's weaknesses is Gastrodon, which can also deal with Steel-type threats with its Ground-type STAB. Hitmontop is also a good partner since it can utilize its Intimidate ability to lower the opponent's Attack stat, and also resists Rock-type moves, especially Rock Slide. Himontop also has strong STAB Fighting-type moves that can deal with Pokemon that pose huge threats to Ninjask, such as Tyranitar.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>If you find Ninjask too frail for your liking, it is possible to run a Focus Sash on it if you are afraid of Choice Scarf Pokemon or dying in one hit. However, this is not recommended as sand is very prevalent and will break the Focus Sash if you Protect, or the sand damage will KO Ninjask once the Focus Sash kicks in. Night Slash is also an option if you have problems with Ghost-type Pokemon, but non-STAB Night Slash is very weak against anything that it does not hit for super effective damage. Substitute can also be used in place of Protect, but it requires some prediction to be useful. Swords Dance is also an option if you feel that you need that extra boost, but this severely limits Ninjask's coverage, survivability, or both. For more experienced players, Final Gambit is also an option, but it is to be used with extreme caution. If you use this correctly, you can successfully take down big threats or take out a huge chunk of HP, but if you use it when they Protect, congratulations, you've just wasted your Ninjask.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ninjask does not have the best defensive typing, leaving it vulnerable to several common attacking types. Rock-types can easily come in on Ninjask and not be too worried about taking a lot of damage. Tyranitar for example can take a hit and KO Ninjask with a 4x super effective Rock Slide. Electric-types such as Thundurus and Eelektross can also easily take on Ninjask thanks to their resistance to Aerial Ace and immunity to Dig, as well as access to super effective STAB Electric-type moves with which to OHKO Ninjask. Chandelure also threatens Ninjask with Heat Wave and other Fire-type moves, but note that Ninjask still has a chance of killing Chandelure and other Fire-types with Dig. Defensive Pokemon such as Hitmontop, Metagross, and Heatran can counter Ninjask fairly easily, being able to take a hit or two. Trick Room also counters Ninjask since it is naturally fast, and Speed Boost will keep raising its Speed, causing Ninjask to be extremely slow in Trick Room. Focus Sash Abomasnow can also take a hit and KO Ninjask with a super effective Blizzard. Other generally bulky Pokemon, such as Dusclops and Cresselia, can also take Ninjask on with ease, and cripple it with Thunder Wave or Will-O-Wisp.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Infiltrator allows Ninjask to bypass the opponent's Light Screen, Reflect, and Safeguard. On the whole, it has little use, as Ninjask's main niche is its ability to outspeed virtually the entire metagame after a Speed boost.</p>