[Overview]

<p>Reuniclus is one of the best offensive users of Trick Room in VGC 2012, boasting an excellent Special Attack stat, great bulk, and a fantastic ability in Magic Guard, allowing Reuniclus to ignore damaging weather and make very good use of the one Life Orb allowed per team. It is not without fault though; it is not as bulky as more dedicated Trick Room users and can be OHKOed by certain attacks, such as a Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor from Latios. It is also susceptible to most Steel-types, especially Scizor and Metagross. Reuniclus is also unable to do much about Taunt or Encore. Still, there are few users of Trick Room that are stronger than the little gelatinous embryo, and it should be one of the first Pokemon considered when looking for someone to fill such a role.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Psychic / Psyshock
move 3: Focus Blast
move 4: Shadow Ball / Protect
item: Life Orb
ability: Magic Guard
nature: Quiet
evs: 172 HP / 28 Def / 252 SpA / 56 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Trick Room is the most important aspect of this set, as Speed is one of the most important factors in the VGC metagame, something Trick Room easily takes advantage of. Psychic is Reuniclus's most powerful attack, able to put a dent in anything that doesn't resist it. Psyshock is a slightly weaker move, but it hits specially bulky Pokemon such as Amoonguss harder. Focus Blast provides the necessary coverage on Tyranitar and other Dark-types, as well as most Steel-types, although more common Steel-types such as Metagross only take neutral damage from it. Lastly Shadow Ball provides coverage on other Psychic types, notably Latios and Cresselia, although Reuniclus will be hard-pressed to beat either on its own. For this reason, Protect is a viable alternative, allowing Reuniclus to scout the opponent's moveset or build up residual damage if sand or hail is out.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EV spread provides Reuniclus with nice overall bulk, helping it to survive attacks it might fall to with a simple 252 HP spread. Magic Guard makes Life Orb an ideal hold item, as Reuniclus can make better use of the one allowed per team than most other Pokemon. However, Life Orb sometimes falls short in power, so a Psychic Gem is also an option, notably allowing Reuniclus to OHKO Thundurus or Tornadus with a boosted Psychic. Mental Herb can prevent Taunt from foiling Reuniclus's attempt to set up, but it is often put to better use on a bulkier user of Trick Room, such as Cresselia or Musharna. Thunder is an option if Reuniclus is paired with Politioed, as it hits most Steel-types with the same amount of power as Focus Blast and, while it is raining, does not suffer from the same accuracy issues.</p>

<p>Dark-types are the biggest threat to Reuniclus: Tyranitar and Scrafty in particular, the latter of which can disrupt Reuniclus's first-turn attempt to set up Trick Room through Fake Out. Reuniclus itself threatens Fighting-types, so the same Pokemon that threaten Reuniclus make great partners for it. Scrafty is a deadly Trick Room sweeper thanks to Moxie, and also makes setting the field condition up easier thanks to Fake Out. Tyranitar effortlessly disposes of Latios and Cresselia and also benefits from Trick Room, especially Iron Ball Fling variants. Reuniclus does not mind the sand Tyranitar brings either. Pairing Reuniclus with another Trick Room user can help to extend the duration of Trick Room, as if both Reuniclus and its teammate successfully use it on the same turn, Trick Room will first be deactivated, then reactivated, resetting the turn counter to five. Reuniclus can also be fit onto a faster team in order to steal back momentum from very fast Pokemon, such as Swift Swim Kingdra. It can be dead weight if its remaining teammates are faster than their opponents, however.</p>

[Other Options] 

<p>Hidden Power Fighting is far weaker than Focus Blast and misses out on important KOs, but is still an option for its accuracy. Hidden Power Fire mauls Scizor and Ferrothorn, and outdamages Focus Blast against most other Steel-types, but it can be useless if it is raining. Reuniclus has the bulk to use Reflect and Light Screen, but there are better users, especially when it comes to dual screens users that can set up Trick Room, such as Cresselia. Recover can be used to heal off damage, but Pokemon rarely have a chance to heal in the fast-paced metagame of VGC 2012. Snatch can steal Safeguard or Tailwind, but Reuniclus will generally want the standard moves over this option, and there are Pokemon that can make better use of Snatch. Reuniclus can opt to run a Modest nature and Thunder Wave over Trick Room, allowing it to fulfill a similar role to its Trick Room set on faster offensive teams without being a hindrance. Reuniclus can also abuse Trick and Flame Orb, crippling a physical attacker while also protecting itself from being put to sleep.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Pokemon that disrupt Reuniclus's attempts to set up Trick Room are a threat, whether through Fake Out, Taunt, or an attack strong enough to OHKO Reuniclus. Priority Encore from Whimsicott can also cripple Reuniclus, forcing it to waste two turns; the first as it is locked into Trick Room and forced to use it a second time, removing the field effect, and the second when it attempts to reset Trick Room. Powerful attackers also pose a serious threat. Latios can OHKO with a Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor, while Reuniclus can do little back without Shadow Ball. Scrafty can disrupt Reuniclus with Fake Out and do serious damage with a STAB Crunch, OHKOing if it carries a Dark Gem. Iron Ball Tyranitar "outspeeds" Reuniclus while Trick Room is up and can OHKO with Fling. Scizor is only threatened if Reuniclus carries Hidden Power Fire and can OHKO with its STAB Technician Bug Bite, or deal serious damage with Bullet Punch if Trick Room is already up. Double-targeting or attacks that hit multiple targets can also make set-up that much more difficult for Reuniclus. Opposing Trick Room users can also opt to use the move themselves, removing the field effect and leaving Reuniclus a sitting duck.</p>