[Overview] 

<p>Even though it faces stiff competition from its other forme, Rotom-W, Rotom-H is a good Pokemon in its own right. With great offensive typing and 105 Special Attack, Rotom-H can bake its opponents. It is also a very bulky Pokemon, with a base stat of 107 in both defenses being well above average. Rotom-H also has a Ground-type immunity, meaning that it can partner up with a Ground-type Pokemon and form the powerful "DisQuake" combo. However, this is where Rotom-H's warranty expires; even though it has only two weaknesses, they are two of the most common types in VGC 2012: Rock and Water. It also has a mediocre base 86 Speed, meaning that faster Pokemon such as Latios and Terrakion can dispose of it before it can attack. It is also very predictable, as an Electric-type attack, Overheat and a Hidden Power comprise its typical offensive movepool. However, don't underestimate the Easy Bake oven, it can roast a team easily.</p>

[SET]
name: Standard
move 1: Overheat
move 2: Thunderbolt / Discharge
move 3: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Grass / Thunder Wave 
move 4: Protect
item: Sitrus Berry / Electric Gem
nature: Modest
evs: 252 HP / 4 Def / 252 SpA

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Rotom-H's bread and butter set, as it provides both bulk and power. Overheat is the main move on any Rotom-H set, as it is the reason to be using it over other Rotom formes. Thunderbolt is STAB, and it also hits very hard. However, Discharge can be used for a great STAB spread move, and works great with a Ground-type partner to form "DisQuake". The choice for the third moveslot depends on what Rotom-H needs to accomplish. Hidden Power Ice nails Dragon-type foes that are resistant to Rotom-H's STAB moves, such as Latios, Garchomp, and Haxorus. Hidden Power Grass hits Ground-type Pokemon that are again resistant to Rotom-H's STAB moves, such as Gastrodon and Rhyperior. Finally, Thunder Wave can be used to slow down faster Pokemon such as Infernape and Weavile. Protect is used to keep Rotom-H from taking unnecessary damage from moves such as Fake Out.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs for this set are very straightforward: maximum Special Attack provides the power for this set, while maximum HP provides bulk and survivability. However, an EV spread of 124 HP / 252 SpA / 132 Spe can be used to outspeed 252 Speed Politoed, Metagross, and Cloyster, which is crucial as Cloyster and Politoed have STAB Water-type attacks that can KO Rotom-H, and KOing Metagross before it can attack is nice as well. A Sitrus Berry gives Rotom-H more survivability, which is useful considering that it has two common weaknesses. Alternatively, an Electric Gem gives Rotom-H a single-use powerful Electric-type attack, which is very useful in getting the extra power to grab a KO.</p>

<p>Rotom-H partners should be able to rid the field of Rock- and Water-type Pokemon. As such, Ground-type Pokemon work well, as their STAB attacks can get rid of Pokemon such as Tyranitar and Terrakion. Gastrodon is a perfect partner, since it can beat Rock-type Pokemon thanks to its Water / Ground typing, while drawing Water-type attacks away from Rotom-H thanks to Storm Drain. Meanwhile, Rotom-H helps out by KOing Grass-types. Torterra is another decent partner, as it can use its Grass-type STAB moves to clear Water-types and Ground-type STAB moves to clear Rock-types, while Rotom-H deals with Ice- and Flying-type Pokemon. Other great partners include Mamoswine and Garchomp; the former can put pressure on opposing Latios and Garchomp with its priority Ice Shard, while Rotom-H KOes Scizor and Metagross; the latter can get rid of Rock-type Pokemon, especially Tyranitar.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice
move 1: Overheat
move 2: Thunderbolt 
move 3: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Grass 
move 4: Trick
item: Choice Scarf / Choice Specs
nature: Modest / Timid
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With Rotom-H's great offensive typing, it is a wonderful Choice item user. With a Choice Scarf, Rotom-H hits 227 Speed, and 258 Special Attack with Choice Specs, meaning that Rotom-H can either outspeed or overpower its usual checks. Overheat wrecks Steel- and Grass-type Pokemon, such as Metagross, Abomasnow, and Chlorophyll users such as Jumpluff and Venusaur. With Choice Specs, Thunderbolt wrecks 252 HP Jellicent, 252 / 252 Togekiss, 4 HP Kingdra, and Politoed sans Wacan Berry. Hidden Power Ice nails Dragon-type Pokemon that would be safe from Rotom-H's STAB moves, such as Latios and Haxorus. On the other hand, Hidden Power Grass nails Gastrodon and Rhyperior, who can cause problems for Rotom-H. Finally, every Choice item user that has access to Trick should use it, as Trick deters defensive Pokemon, such as Cresselia and Musharna.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs are again straightforward: maximum Special Attack and Speed are used so Rotom-H can make the most of its Choice item. While Rotom-H is a great Choice item user, one must keep in mind that Rotom-H cannot use Protect, and therefore major support is needed. Follow Me and Rage Powder users such as Amoonguss and Lucario work great, as Amoonguss beats Rock- and Water-type Pokemon, while Lucario beats Tyranitar. Toxicroak also helps, as it beats Rock-type Pokemon as well as gaining health back when hit by a Water-type attack, and can use Fake Out to buy Rotom-H time to attack. Ninetales works as well, as a sun-boosted Overheat is very powerful; few Pokemon can take it. Gastrodon is another great partner, since it can beat Rock-type Pokemon thanks to its dual Water / Ground typing, and has Storm Drain to keep Rotom-H safe from Water-type attacks. Torterra makes a great partner as it can use its powerful Grass-type moves to deal with Water-types, and decimate Rock-types with Earthquake, while Rotom-H deals with Ice- and Flying-type Pokemon. Rotom-H appreciates teammates that can handle Dragon-type Pokemon, so Mamoswine is a solid partner.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>With a decent movepool, Rotom-H has quite a few options. Will-O-Wisp can be used to weaken physical attacks, while Reflect and Light Screen can both be used to make Rotom-H's team bulkier. However, thanks to Rotom-H's great offensive typing, it should focus on attacking. Sunny Day is still an option for Rotom-H, as it can abuse the sun to make its Overheats overpowering while weakening Water-type attacks. Shadow Ball can be used to hit the Lati twins, as well as Ghost- and Psychic-type Pokemon, but that's about all it does. Item-wise, Rotom-H can use a Charti Berry to take attacks such as Rock Slide better, which can be useful in getting a KO on a Pokemon.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Even the most durable of ovens eventually get rusty, and there is one Pokemon that can speed up this process: Gastrodon. It's immune to Rotom-H's Electric-type STAB moves, and is resistant to Overheat. It can also retaliate with a STAB Water-type attack, which will hurt even more in rain. However, Gastrodon must be wary of Hidden Power Grass. Dragon-type Pokemon, such as Latios, Latias, and Hydregion, resist both of Rotom-H's STAB moves, and all have powerful attacks to hit Rotom-H with. However, Hidden Power Ice can keep them at bay. Tyranitar gets a Special Defense boost in sand, so it can take a Hidden Power Grass, and then it can break the oven with a Rock Slide. Terrakion outspeeds and deals massive damage with Rock Slide, and is also bulky enough to take a Hidden Power Grass, especially in sand. Lastly, Trick Room can prove problematic for Rotom-H, especially Choice Scarf variants.</p>