[Overview]

<p>Granting it a total of ten resistances and only one weakness, Scizor's typing alone allows it to be an easy fit on most teams. Additionally, Scizor boasts one of the most powerful priority moves in the game that is backed by a huge 130 base Attack stat, as well as its Technician ability, thus making it a very potent attacker. Its Bug STAB enables it to annihilate Psychic-types, even threatening to 2HKO the incredibly resilient Cresselia. If you're looking for a bulky Steel-type to hold your team together while simultaneously posing as an offensive threat, Scizor is sure to not disappoint.</p> 

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Bullet Punch 
move 2: Bug Bite 
move 3: Superpower 
move 4: Protect
item: Occa Berry 
ability: Technician
nature: Adamant
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Scizor boasts a great combination of offense and defense with this set. Bullet Punch is an incredibly powerful priority attack, picking off most weakened foes. Due to the Technician boost, Bug Bite is Scizor's strongest STAB, scoring an easy KO on Pokemon such as Latios, Ludicolo, and Abomasnow. Bug Bite also consumes the opponent's Berry, which allows Scizor to accomplish the incredible feat of 2HKOing even Sitrus Berry Cresselia. Superpower gives it much-needed coverage, hitting Steel-types such as Heatran for super effective damage. Superpower also deals more damage to Fighting-types and non-Chople Berry Tyranitar than the other attacks listed.</P> 

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>252 Attack EVs are used while the rest are put into HP in order to maximize Scizor's overall bulk. If you would instead prefer to bolster Scizor's lower Special Defense, a spread of 180 HP / 252 Atk / 76 SpD maximizes Sczior's special bulk in exchange for a loss of some physical bulk.</P>

<p>Protect is standard in doubles play. Scizor can feasibly forgo Protect for another attack due to its bulk and typing, but its severe weakness to Fire-type attacks will often put it in a situation where it's forced to switch when confronted by a Fire-type move if it does not carry Protect.</P>

<p>Dragon-types such as Latios and Garchomp usually enjoy having Scizor around. Scizor easily picks off Weavile with Bullet Punch and forces out or deals with opposing Latios, Abomasnow, and Cresselia. In return, Garchomp and Latios can pose a deterrent to Fire-type attacks and threaten Fire-type foes with Earthquake or Rock Slide, or in Latios's case with its insanely powerful Draco Meteor. They also complement each other well defensively. Terrakion enjoys the removal of Psychic-types and can threaten Zapdos as well as most other Fire-type attack users with its powerful Rock-type STAB. Gyarados is also a great partner, resisting Fire-type attacks and supporting with Intimidate and Thunder Wave. Because of its ability to deal with Tyranitar and Abomasnow, Scizor can work well on weather teams to eliminate those two.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Besides Occa Berry, a Lum Berry can heal Scizor from a crippling burn and other status. A Sitrus Berry helps Scizor in its role as a bulky attacker. Scizor can be effective in Trick Room because of its low Speed; it also learns Fling, which can be used in conjunction with Iron Ball to lower its Speed and give it a 130 Base Power Dark-type move. While gimmicky, a Technician-boosted Natural Gift can let Scizor OHKO Pokemon it would normally have trouble with, such as Gyarados and Salamence, two Pokemon that one would probably never think to be in any severe danger against Scizor.</p>

<p>U-turn can be a great momentum keeper and works excellently along with Fake Out or Intimidate users. However, U-turn is noticeably weaker than Bug Bite and the forced switch can sometimes be problematic because you can only bring four Pokemon and have two out at the same time. Scizor can usually get Tailwind up thanks to its superb defensive typing, barring Fake Out or Taunt, and can run enough speed EVs to outpace base 130 Speed Pokemon. Acrobatics helps rain teams immensely, KOing common rain threats such as Breloom, Virizion, and Toxicroak. Alternatively, Aerial Ace is a Technician-boosted move that allows Scizor to hold something other than a Flying Gem while still retaining the ability to KO the three Pokemon mentioned above. Night Slash allows Scizor to hit Ghost-types such as Jellicent and Chandelure for super effective damage. However, note that Flying Gem-boosted Acrobatics out damages Night Slash and 2HKOes most Jellicent and Chandelure. Feint has the same priority as Extremespeed and breaks all forms of Protect, ensuring Scizor's partner can land its attack. Quick Attack is weaker then Bullet Punch, but does more damage to Water-types such as Kingdra and Ludicolo. Besides Tailwind, Scizor also gets Light Screen for team support. It boosts your team's Special Defense, and can also save Scizor from weaker Fire-type attacks.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Unfortunately, Scizor's movepool leaves it with few offensive options; as a consequence, there are a number of Pokemon Scizor will struggle to get past. Zapdos is one of the best switch-ins, as it resists every move on the standard set and threatens to KO Scizor with Heat Wave. Ninetales similarly resists both of its STABs and summons permanent sun, making Scizor's Occa Berry useless against most Fire-type attacks. Intimidate users such as Arcanine, Salamence, Gyarados, and Hitmontop are all a bane to Scizor, lowering its Attack and making Scizor struggle to do significant damage. Heatran, Infernape, Volcarona, and Chandelure resist both of Scizor's STABs and can KO with their STAB moves; Heatran should be wary of Superpower, however. Most Fire-types are typically a great threat to Scizor; the four above are merely the most common. However, it should be noted that in the rain, Occa Berry Scizor can survive any unboosted Fire-type attack bar Overheat. Bulky Ghost-types are a nuisance as they resist Bug Bite and can burn Scizor with Will-O-Wisp.</p>