[Overview]

<p>While most people will think that Solosis is just a gimmick that should never be used, it actually performs quite well in VGC 2012. Solosis is one of the few Pokemon that can be used as a FEAR Trick Room user, and it has a niche over others such as Whimsicott and Smeargle. Thanks to Solosis's unique ability, Magic Guard, weather such as hail and sand doesn't affect Solosis. On the contrary, it actually helps Solosis, as it KOes Pokemon that Solosis uses Endeavor on. Another factor that separates Solosis from other FEAR Pokemon is that it gains Imprison, so it can also be used to stop Trick Room from being reversed or stop Protect once Trick Room is up. However, Solosis isn't a perfect Pokemon. Due to its being Lv. 1, it isn't hard to beat, and after its job is done, it's dead weight. Also, because it's at Level 1, your opponent will know its function. However, Solosis is a cool blob; use it!</p>

[SET]
name: FEAR - VGC Edition
move 1: Trick Room
move 2: Endeavor
move 3: Protect 
move 4: Imprison 
item: Focus Sash
ability: Magic Guard

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Even though this moveset looks plain to the naked eye, it does so much to help its team win. Trick Room and Endeavor are staples of this set, as Solosis's base 20 Speed gives it an advantage in Trick Room, and Endeavor severely weakens the opponent. Additionally, Solosis's base 20 Speed is lower than any other FEAR Pokemon, including Whimsicott and Smeargle. Protect ensures that Solosis will keep its Focus Sash intact, especially because opponents will double target it to prevent Trick Room from going up, meaning its partner can set up Trick Room instead. Imprison prevents Trick Room from being reversed once it's up and stops Protect, which makes Solosis usable in this metagame.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Because Solosis is at Lv. 1, EVs and Nature don't matter. Also, Focus Sash is a must, especially because it's at Lv. 1. The ability choice isn't hard either, as Magic Guard outclasses Overcoat because it does what Overcoat does and much more, such as evading damage from status such as burn and poison.</p>

<p>The one Pokemon that has Solosis's number, Chandelure, can shut it down with Imprison. To make matters worse, Chandelure is immune to Endeavor, the only move Solosis can use once it is hit with Imprison. As such, Pokemon such as Rock Gem Rock Blast Rhyperior, Gigalith, or Armaldo work wonders, as they can use Rock Gem boosted Rock Blast to OHKO Chandelure though Focus Sash, ensuring Trick Room can be set up. Armaldo also beats Dark-type Pokemon, so it is useful in trying to keep Solosis alive. Tyranitar is useful too; Crunch and Rock Slide will finish off Chandelure on the first turn, with Sand Stream killing off Chandelure after its Focus Sash is broken. Ghost-type Pokemon, such as Chandelure and Jellicent, also partner up well, as they are immune to Fake Out and can set up Trick Room if Solosis is threatened by a Fake Out user, though Dark-type Pokemon such as Tyranitar will be tough to face. Fake Out users, such as Scarfty and Hariyama, work well because they buy Solosis time to set up Trick Room. Scrafty is the most notable example because it can use its Dark-type STAB attacks to beat Ghost-types. Follow Me and Rage Powder users such as Togekiss, Lucario, and Amoonguss work well because they draw attacks away from Solosis. Finally, Tyranitar and Abomasnow's weather summoning is useful, as the residual damage can finish off foes that have been hit with Endeavor.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>The moveset provided above showcases the most useful options Solosis can use. However, there are a few other options Solosis can use. Attract, Confuse Ray, and Swagger can be used to leave the opponent crippled; however, Attract won't affect Pokemon of the same gender, confusion won't always work, and Solosis has better things to do anyways. Charm can be used to make Solosis weaken other Pokemon, which can prove useful for Solosis's teammates. Explosion may seem like an odd option, but it can be used to ensure a safe switch in for Solosis's teammates and KO Pokemon that Solosis has hit with Endeavor. Reflect and Light Screen can be used to help boost the Defense or Special Defense, respectively, of Solosis's teammates, though Solosis can't afford to run both, as it suffers from four-moveslot syndrome. Rain Dance can be used to activate rain, activating rain-related abilities and boosting Water-type attacks while weakening Fire-type attacks, but Solosis tends to love sand and hail more, as both can KO its foes that aren't immune to said weathers. Finally, Trick can be used to take away the opponents item once Focus Sash is used up.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Because Solosis is at Lv. 1, it isn't hard to beat, so true counters are Pokemon that stop it from doing its job. Chandelure is its best counter, as it can use Imprison to stop Solosis from using three moves out of its movepool and it is immune to Endeavor. Ghost-type Pokemon in general beat Solosis due to their immunity to Endeavor. Ferrothorn is another good check, as it can break Solosis's Focus Sash after Solosis uses Endeavor and KO it with an attack. Taunt ruins Solosis, especially as Solosis has to use a Focus Sash, meaning it has no protection from Taunt. Pokemon with priority moves, such as Scizor, Conkeldurr, and Metagross can just use the moves to break Solosis before it can react. Pokemon with multi-hit moves, such as Cloyster, will plow right through Focus Sash.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Regenerator sucks; stick with Magic Guard.</p>