[Overview]

<p>At first glance, Starmie might appear to be a top-tier threat in VGC 2012 with its high base Speed and large movepool. However, even with a Life Orb or another power-boosting item, its base 100 Special Attack is simply not enough for it to beat the opponent's Pokemon before they can KO Starmie. A Focus Sash somewhat remedies this issue, though, and with the right team support, Starmie can cause huge problems to any team.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Hydro Pump
move 2: Thunderbolt / Thunder
move 3: Ice Beam / Blizzard
move 4: Protect / Psyshock
item: Focus Sash
ability: Natural Cure
nature: Timid
evs: 252 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set utilizes Starmie's high Speed, decent Special Attack, and great offensive movepool to deal as much damage as possible before it goes down. Hydro Pump is the most powerful Water-type attack that Starmie can use, and it provides Starmie with great coverage in VGC 2012. Ice Beam and Thunderbolt provide BoltBeam coverage, which is particularly effective against the Grass- and Water-types that resist Hydro Pump. Protect has many uses in doubles, as it can be used to stall out an extra turn of Tailwind or Trick Room, and also keep Focus Sash intact. Focus Sash is strongly recommend on Starmie, as it allows Starmie to almost always use at least two attacks.</p>

<p>Thunder is generally the best option for Starmie if it is being used on a rain team, as it needs all of the power that it can get. However, it should only be considered when paired with a Pokemon that has Rain Dance or a Drizzle Politoed. Blizzard can be useful as hail is reasonably common in VGC 2012, thanks to Abomasnow's Snow Warning, and it hits both opponents for around the same amount as Ice Beam; note though that it is somewhat unreliable outside of hail. Psyshock can be very useful for beating Fighting-types, such as Toxicroak, Virizion, and Hitmontop, and also to hit Blissey, Snorlax, and Ludicolo harder, but Protect will be more effective in most battles.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>To make Starmie hit as hard and fast as possible, 252 EVs are placed in both Special Attack and Speed. The remaining 4 EVs are placed in Special Defense in order to eliminate the risk of Pokemon such as Porygon-Z receiving a Special Attack boost from Download. A Modest nature is not recommended, as a Timid nature lets Starmie outspeed common Pokemon such as Thundurus and Latios; the power boost from using a Modest nature is not particularly noticeable regardless. Although switching is not as common in VGC as it is in singles, mainly due to the prevalence of Thunder Wave from Pokemon such as Thundurus and Cresselia, Natural Cure is the recommended ability for Starmie.</p>

<p>Rain support aids Starmie greatly, as it boosts the power of Hydro Pump and allows Starmie to use Thunder effectively. Hydro Pump has a colossal 270 Base Power after the rain boost and STAB, so it hits everything that does not resist it for a ton of damage. It should be noted that a rain-boosted Hydro Pump is more powerful than even a super effective Thunder. The power boost from Thunder is quite useful as it enables Starmie to 2HKO Pokemon such as Wacan Berry Politoed and 252/0 Jellicent. A Politoed with Drizzle is the best option for providing rain support for Starmie, but Rain Dance users such as Thundurus and Tornadus can also work, as they would let Starmie beat Pokemon such as Tyranitar and Ninetales with relative ease. Tornadus can effectively provide Tailwind support as well, which can allow Starmie to outspeed and beat Pokemon such as Jolteon, Weavile, and Choice Scarf Chandelure, while also helping against weather-based teams.</p>

<p>Many Pokemon can do a great job of supporting Starmie, and most of these can simply defeat Starmie's counters. Fighting-types such as Hitmontop, Terrakion, and Infernape are good picks, as they can defeat common counters to Starmie, such as Tyranitar, Abomasnow, Gastrodon, and Kingdra, with a powerful STAB Close Combat. Additionally, Hitmontop can use Fake Out to stop one of the opponent's Pokemon from attacking for a turn, Terrakion can rack up damage on the opponent's Pokemon and break Focus Sashes with Rock Slide while also being able to OHKO Yanmega, and Infernape can take out Grass-types with Flare Blitz and Overheat. Metagross is another good option, as it can finish off the Pokemon that Starmie fails to OHKO with Bullet Punch, and beat threats such as Tyranitar, Abomasnow, and Hitmontop with Meteor Mash and Zen Headbutt, respectively. Abomasnow's Snow Warning ability helps Starmie beat weather abusers, such as Venusaur and Ludicolo, which would otherwise outspeed and OHKO Starmie, although hail will break Starmie's Focus Sash. Abomasnow can help against Gastrodon, and the hail it provides allows Starmie to use Blizzard.</p>

<p>Alternatively, Amoonguss, Togekiss, and Cresselia can support Starmie defensively. Amoonguss can use Rage Powder to deflect attacks such as Sucker Punch and Thunderbolt from Starmie, Spore to put major threats to sleep, and Giga Drain to remove Pokemon such as Gastrodon. Furthermore, Amoonguss resists Grass- and Electric-type attacks, so it can take quite a few attacks that will be targeted at Starmie. Togekiss can also use Follow Me to deflect attacks, but it has more offensive options, allowing it to take out Pokemon such as Hitmontop, Ludicolo, and Abomasnow with Air Slash and Fire Blast, respectively. Additionally, Togekiss can use Tailwind to boost the Speed of your team. Cresselia can provide Thunder Wave or Icy Wind support to help Starmie against the few Pokemon that can outspeed it, such as Jolteon, Weavile, Choice Scarf Chandelure, and weather sweepers; it can also use Trick Room to reverse a possible Trick Room set up by opposing teams, as well as Helping Hand to boost the power of Starmie's attacks. More offensively, it can use Psychic to remove common Sucker Punch users, such as Hitmontop and Toxicroak.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Scald is an alternative to Hydro Pump if you would rather not run the risk of it missing, but the power drop is noticeable. Surf is another alternative to Hydro Pump, but it hits Starmie's teammate and is actually weaker than Scald in double battles. Psychic is an alternative to Psyshock, but it does not get any KOs that Psyshock wouldn't; Psyshock is also generally better because it can greatly damage Pokemon such as Blissey and Snorlax. Hidden Power Fire can be used to damage Abomasnow, Ferrothorn, and Shedinja, but it cannot OHKO variants of Ferrothorn and Abomasnow that invest in HP. If you do decide to use Hidden Power Fire, an alternative EV spread of 248 SpA / 12 SpD / 248 Spe should be used. Hidden Power Grass could be used to inflict more damage against Pokemon such as Rotom-W and Gastrodon, but Starmie fails to OHKO either of them. If you do decide to use Hidden Power Grass, an alternative EV spread of 4 HP / 248 SpA / 4 SpD / 252 Spe should be used.</p>

<p>Starmie can play a more supportive role with moves such as Icy Wind and Thunder Wave, but Pokemon such as Cresselia usually do this job much more effectively as Starmie is relatively frail. Recover is an option to avoid Sucker Punch and restore HP, but it is rarely useful in VGC 2012. If you want some extra power, Starmie can hold a Life Orb or Water Gem, but it appreciates being able to take a hit with its Focus Sash. Other Gems can also be used, but they will often not be as effective. A Colbur Berry enables Starmie to beat Weavile, take a Sucker Punch, and survive for a turn against Tyranitar, but Focus Sash is usually the better option, as it allows Starmie to survive an attack of any type. Finally, Analytic is an alternative to Natural Cure, but with such a high Speed stat, Starmie will almost always be attacking first.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>The likes of Weavile, Speed Boost Yanmega, Jolteon, and Choice Scarf users such as Rotom and Chandelure can outspeed and KO Starmie, but they have to watch out for Focus Sash variants. Sucker Punch users such as Toxicroak and Hitmontop can damage Starmie before it is able to attack, but they have to watch out for Psyshock. Tyranitar can take a Hydro Pump in the sand, knock Starmie to its sash with Crunch, and let sandstorm finish the job. Starmie has difficulty OHKOing many Pokemon, including Zapdos, so if they are not finished off by Starmie's partner, they can pose a threat to it. Gastrodon and Cresselia can take all of Starmie's attacks with ease, but cannot damage Starmie much in return. Ferrothorn, Abomasnow, and Ludicolo are probably the best counters to Starmie, as they take little damage from Starmie's attacks and can hit it hard with the appropriate Grass-type attack. In addition, Starmie has problems against Trick Room teams in general due to its frailty.</p>