[Overview]

<p>While Terrakion was one of the best and most common sweepers in VGC 2011, many new checks and counters to it have risen in VGC 2012. Despite this, Terrakion retains its title as a top-tier threat in VGC play. Terrakion possesses several key qualities that many other Pokemon would die for, the most obvious being its brilliant dual STABs: a strong Rock Slide puts the hurt on both opponents, while Close Combat can badly hurt a single opponent. Together, they form a STAB combo that is resisted by only a few Pokemon. Complementing this is Terrakion's towering Attack stat, high Speed, and decent bulk, which enables it to survive most neutral attacks. However, said bulk is compromised by Terrakion's many common weaknesses, most notably to Fighting-, Ground-, and Water-type attacks. Consequently, there are many common Pokemon that threaten it, particularly as all forms of weather run rampant in VGC 2012. Team support thus becomes even more important this year, as it helps Terrakion overcome its many counters and lets it reach its full potential.</p>

[SET]
name: Physical Attacker
move 1: Close Combat
move 2: Rock Slide
move 3: Quick Attack / Quick Guard
move 4: Protect 
item: Focus Sash / Life Orb
nature: Jolly
evs: 4 HP / 244 Atk / 4 Def / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This is Terrakion's standard set. Close Combat and Rock Slide form a nearly unresisted STAB combo, one hitting an individual target very hard, and the other hitting both opponents, albeit for less damage. Quick Attack can finish off weakened opponents, and is the usual choice for the third moveslot. An alternative option to Quick Attack is Quick Guard, as Terrakion is weak to Mach Punch, Bullet Punch, and Aqua Jet, with the first two priority moves being very prevalent. If you have teammates that are also weak to common priority attacks, Quick Guard can protect both Terrakion and your teammate from them. It also provides protection against Fake Out from Pokemon that are slower than Terrakion, and temporarily shuts down Technician Hitmontop, whose only form of offense is in the form of priority attacks. Protect is a staple move in doubles play, as it keeps Terrakion safe from harm as a teammate eliminates a potential threat to it, and lets Terrakion stall out at least one turn of Trick Room or Tailwind, in addition to guarding it from priority. Quick Guard can also be used over Protect, but this isn't recommended as Protect is generally superior to either of the moves in the third slot.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Focus Sash is a great item for Terrakion in doubles play, as it allows Terrakion to survive common super effective attacks. Life Orb gives Terrakion a major boost in power and is a viable alternative to Focus Sash, however. As far as EVs are concerned, always maximize Speed to Speed-tie with Infernape and other Terrakion. 4 EVs each in HP and Defense enable Terrakion to always survive Jolly Tornadus's Flying Gem Acrobatics. 244 Attack EVs give the same Attack as 248, so the remaining EVs are thrown into Special Defense, as they are of no use elsewhere. Earthquake can be used in the third moveslot if the listed options aren't to your liking, but the only notable Pokemon it hits harder is Toxicroak.</p>

<p>Terrakion enjoys teammates that can take out Fighting-types, as it cannot do so itself. Terrakion especially fears Mach Punch from Hitmontop and Conkeldurr, as the move bypasses Terrakion's superior Speed. Flying-types such as Tornadus and Staraptor are thus great teammates, as they both outspeed and OHKO the common Fighting-types, as well as Amoonguss that lack Coba Berry, which walls Terrakion while simultaneously threatening it with Spore and STAB Giga Drain. Speaking of Tornadus, Terrakion loves the Tailwind support it provides, as it enables Terrakion to outrun almost everything. Beat Up support gives Terrakion a +4 Attack boost thanks to its ability, Justified, making it a very deadly sweeper. Whimsicott is easily the best Beat Up supporter, as it can also provide Tailwind, Charm, and Helping Hand support. Furthermore, Whimsicott appreciates Terrakion's Quick Guard, which lets it avoid Fake Out from opponents slower than Terrakion. Keep in mind, however, that Focus Sash is counterproductive with the Beat Up strategy.</p>

<p>Sandstorm support helps Terrakion survive even super effective STAB special attacks. The weather is best set up by Tyranitar, who deals with the Psychic-types that threaten Terrakion. Tyranitar can remove the rain set up by Politoed as well, preventing Swift Swim users from outspeeding and OHKOing Terrakion with their rain-boosted attacks. Latios is another excellent partner, as its typing and special bulk provide your team with durability against Water-type attacks. Additionally, Latios can OHKO Water-types with either Thunderbolt or Draco Meteor, and remove Fighting-types (barring Scrafty) with its STAB Psychic-type attacks. Finally, Fire-type partners can take out Scizor and Metagross, which threaten Terrakion with priority STAB Bullet Punch. Ninetales is notable as it also sets up sunshine to remove Terrakion's weakness to Water-type moves. However, while Terrakion usually enjoys sunshine, it enjoys sandstorm support even more. If using Ninetales, be careful of opposing Chlorophyll users that can outspeed Terrakion and hit it super effectively with Grass-type attacks.</p>

[SET]
name: Choice Scarf
move 1: Close Combat
move 2: Rock Slide
move 3: Earthquake
move 4: X-Scissor
item: Choice Scarf
nature: Jolly / Adamant
evs: 4 HP / 244 Atk / 4 Def / 4 SpD / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>With a Choice Scarf, Terrakion outspeeds almost everything without more than a +1 boost in Speed, enabling it to take out certain opponents, such as Low Kick Weavile, before they have a chance to attack. Close Combat and Rock Slide are staples for great coverage; Earthquake deals less damage than STAB Rock Slide and might possibly damage your ally, but nets extra coverage and functions as another spread attack when Rock Slide wouldn't be as useful or if you really need the 100% accuracy; it forms the infamous QuakeSlide combo with Rock Slide as well. Earthquake is also notable for hitting Toxicroak super effectively; as it resists all of Terrakion's other attacks, it otherwise walls Terrakion while posing a threat with STAB Fighting-type attacks. X-Scissor hits Psychic-types harder than any of Terrakion's other moves do. Just keep in mind that it won't OHKO bulky Psychic-types such as Reuniclus and Musharna, while 252+ Musharna has a 81% chance to OHKO Terrakion with Psychic, and Reuniclus will OHKO for sure.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Jolly is the preferred nature to outspeed Choice Scarf Garchomp and Modest Ludicolo in the rain, as well as any other Choice Scarf users with a base Speed less than 108. Jolly Terrakion also Speed-ties with neutral-natured Shiftry and Venusaur in the sun, along with +2 Blaziken. However, an Adamant nature is a viable option for the extra power. The EVs are the same as the previous set for the same reasons listed.</p>

<p>Choice Scarf Terrakion shares similar checks and counters as non-Choice Scarf Terrakion. However, Earthquake and X-Scissor dent many would-be counters, such as Toxicroak, while the extra Speed makes Terrakion more difficult to revenge kill, but this comes at the price of being locked into one attack. Choice Scarf Terrakion doesn't need Tailwind support, but hates Trick Room even more than usual. Tyranitar sets up sandstorm to support Terrakion, and is a great answer to the many Ghost- and Psychic-types that set up Trick Room; with its low Speed, Tyranitar also benefits from Trick Room should the opponent set it up. Terrakion appreciates both Wide Guard and Quick Guard support to avoid many super effective attacks such as Earthquake and Mach Punch, even more so than the previous set as it doesn't have Protect. Unfortunately, most of the users of those two attacks share Terrakion's Fighting typing, meaning the team will be doubly weak to Psychic-type attacks. Nevertheless, Hitmontop is the best user of both those attacks because it has Sucker Punch to dent Psychic-types and can use Fake Out as Terrakion uses X-Scissor.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Chople Berry is an option to provide protection against the common Fighting-types attacks that could otherwise OHKO Terrakion; it is also a good choice if Terrakion's teammates are already holding Focus Sash and Life Orb. Terrakion can use a Choice Band for extra power, but its many weaknesses make this less appealing, as Choice Band means that it can’t effectively utilize Protect or the Speed provided by Choice Scarf to overcome its checks and counters. Finally, Lum Berry is another option to remove paralysis, burn, and sleep, all of which severely cripple Terrakion.</p>

<p>Sacred Sword is an option to avoid Close Combat's defense drops while ignoring defensive boosts, though the latter effect will rarely be utilized. Close Combat is usually the superior move choice due to its raw power. Stone Edge deals significantly more damage to one foe than Rock Slide does, but Rock Slide is generally more useful as it hits both targets, has superior accuracy, and has a good flinch rate. Stone Edge can be used in conjunction with Rock Slide if you're willing to give up a coverage attack, though. Safeguard is useful against Amoonguss and slow, bulky Ghost-types that might use Will-O-Wisp and take little damage from Terrakion's attacks, but Terrakion is usually better off just attacking other status-inducing foes. Taunt can disrupt your opponent's strategy, and Terrakion has the Speed to pull it off, but Pokemon with the ability Prankster can utilize the move better. Taunt's best use is against Trick Room users, but if they're not Porygon2 or Dusclops, they might be holding a Mental Herb, rendering Taunt useless. Terrakion also gets Helping Hand, but it is usually better off attacking than giving a teammate a power boost.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Despite Terrakion's solid offensive typing, it has a large number of checks and counters. Amoonguss can shrug off whatever Terrakion uses and put it to sleep with Spore, or even hit it hard with a super effective Giga Drain. Any moderately bulky Ghost-type without a weakness to Rock Slide, such as Jellicent, Dusclops, Dusknoir, or Golurk, completely wall Terrakion. In return, they can either hit Terrakion hard with their super effective attacks or cripple it with Will-O-Wisp.</p>

<p>Fighting-types that can take a Close Combat are also effective counters. Hitmontop is arguably the best counter to any Terrakion without Quick Guard, as it can possibly KO Terrakion with the combination of Life Orb- and Technician-boosted Fake Out and Mach Punch, both of which bypass Terrakion's superior Speed. Alternatively, it can lower Terrakion's Attack with Intimidate instead while still dealing good damage with its Fighting-type STABs. Conkeldurr and Toxicroak are the next two big threats; the former bypasses Terrakion's Speed with Mach Punch, while both shrug off Terrakion's attacks with good bulk and resistances, respectively. The latter loses if Terrakion has Earthquake, however. Reuniclus and Musharna are not OHKOed by X-Scissor, and can threaten to OHKO with Psychic in return. Cresselia can only 2HKO Terrakion with Psychic, but her massive bulk enables her to survive even two consecutive X-Scissors. Terrakion hates rain teams as they commonly run multiple Water-types, most of whom can OHKO it. Swift Swim users are even greater problems as they outspeed Terrakion, with some able to outrun even Choice Scarf Terrakion. Other Water-types, such as Rotom-W, can OHKO Terrakion outside of rain, while surviving any of Terrakion's attacks.</p>

<p>Finally, it should be noted that many of the Pokemon that Terrakion could normally defeat easily might be holding either a Chople or Charti Berry to survive a super effective hit and could retaliate with a super effective attack of their own; one such example is Chople Berry Scrafty.</p>