[Overview]

<p>Ursaring is possibly one of the most overlooked Pokemon in the VGC 2012 metagame. With access to Guts, a base 130 Attack stat, and STAB Facade that reaches a base power of 315 when inflicted with a status condition, it can be a great Trick Room sweeper. Outside of Trick Room, Ursaring struggles because of its base 55 Speed, so it does not see much action. Ursaring's niche is sweeping, so it's important to avoid keeping Ursaring on the field for long periods of time if its Speed has not been boosted.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Sweeper
move 1: Facade
move 2: Close Combat
move 3: Crunch 
move 4: Protect
item: Flame Orb 
ability: Guts
nature: Brave
evs: 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpD
ivs: 0 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Facade is an obvious choice because its base 315 power, thanks to Guts, is just too much to pass up. Ursaring is otherwise outclassed by the more common Pokemon seen in VGC 2012 if Facade is not used, as it lets it 2HKO most Pokemon who resist it. Close Combat, although it drops its Defense and Special Defense, is the best choice for this set because it gets crucial KOs on Pokemon such as Tyranitar and Excadrill, and hits Steel-types for major damage. Facade can't touch Ghost-types so Crunch is preferred because it can possibly OHKO standard Chandelure. Ursaring should avoid using Protect except when Trick Room is being set up or when facing Fighting-types with priority moves, such as Hitmontop. Although it isn’t very useful, Protect can be invaluable when trying to keep Ursaring alive.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Ursaring only really works in Trick Room, so a Brave nature and 0 Speed IVs are best. The given EV spread is to increase Ursaring's durability and works best if Ursaring isn't constantly in battle.</p>

<p>Seeing as Ursaring works best in Trick Room, it loves Trick Room partners such as Cresselia or Chandelure; Cresselia is even able to make Facade stronger with Helping Hand if needed. Because of the damage it takes from its Flame Orb, Ursaring appreciates partners with Heal Pulse, specifically Slowking, who can also set up Trick Room and counter most Fighting-types. Pokemon with Intimidate are welcome partners as well, as most Fighting-type moves tend to be physical. Follow Me and Rage Powder users are also extremely useful to Ursaring, allowing it to attack freely while its partner takes any damage directed at Ursaring. Fake Out users are priceless in the fast-paced VGC metagame; Sableye provides both Fake Out and Will-O-Wisp support, allowing Ursaring to have a bit more freedom when attacking outside of Trick Room.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Ursaring can use an Adamant nature with a Speed IV of 31 instead, but Trick Room Ursaring tends to work better. Earthquake can be used to hit Pokemon such as Heatran harder, but Close Combat is usually a better choice. Low Kick is essentially a weaker Close Combat, but may be preferred because it doesn't lower Ursaring's defenses. Counter can be really useful, but requires a lot of prediction to work effectively. Fling is also usable when using Flame Orb or Toxic Orb, but the one time chance and the prediction needed to pull it off makes Crunch the superior option. Rock Slide's ability to possibly flinch the opponent makes it another desirable option. Double-Edge and Return should only be used if Ursaring isn't using Guts, but Ursaring isn't really worth using without Facade. The elemental punches are also usable on Ursaring for coverage purposes. Brick Break doesn't hit nearly as hard as Close Combat or Low Kick, but can be useful to destroy Reflect and Light Screen. Night Slash's higher critical hit ratio is all it really has over Crunch, and is therefore an inferior option to it. Hammer Arm is more useful if Ursaring is guaranteed Trick Room at all times, as the Speed drops would make actually Ursaring faster. Swords Dance and Bulk Up are possible choices over Protect, but they won't get much use with its status cutting Ursaring's HP every turn. Unnerve and Quick Feet are Ursaring's other abilities, and neither works well enough to be used over Guts. Toxic Orb is a useful item if Ursaring is to be played more conservatively, as it does less damage than a Flame Orb only if Ursaring is on the field for three or less turns. Although Ursaring is severely outclassed without Guts, other items such as Sitrus Berry or Chople Berry that preserve its bulk can be considered.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Ursaring can't handle being attacked twice in one turn, nor can it handle facing most Fighting-types. Hitmontop is especially annoying for Ursaring because of its access to Mach Punch. If Ursaring doesn't switch out at all, then its burn will eventually take it out instead. Cofagrigus's Mummy ability tends to cause problems because it nullifies Guts. Disable and Cursed Body from other Ghost-types aren't always problems, but it depends on which move they stop. Ursaring becomes frail after a Close Combat, so if any Pokemon uses a priority move on it, Ursaring will probably go down. Steel-types and bulky Pokemon tend to give Ursaring trouble because they can usually take a hit and then leave a dent in Ursaring. Pokemon with very strong, Gem-boosted attacks also give Ursaring trouble; for example, most Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteors can OHKO Ursaring, so Trick Room definitely needs to be set up to avoid these situations. Without the Speed advantage, Ursaring is very easy to stop.</p>