[Overview]

<p>As a slow Water-type, Vaporeon naturally draws comparisons to Jellicent. Both have access to STAB spread moves not named Surf, are graced with Water Absorb, have similar bulk, and can come in both blue and pink. While Jellicent has a useful Ghost typing and is able to set up Trick Room by itself, Vaporeon has access to Helping Hand and the incredibly annoying and useful combination of Rest and Hydration. With bulk, power, and instant recovery numerous ChestoRest users can only dream of, Vaporeon is certainly not one to be taken lightly.</p>

[SET]
name: Trick Room Tank
move 1: Hydro Pump / Muddy Water / Scald
move 2: Ice Beam
move 3: Hidden Power Grass / Helping Hand
move 4: Rest / Detect
item: Water Gem / Wacan Berry / Sitrus Berry
nature: Quiet
evs: 140 HP / 116 Def / 248 SpA / 4 SpD
ivs: 30 Atk / 30 SpA / 3 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Taking into account its low Speed, high defenses, and good Special Attack, Vaporeon is a natural candidate for Trick Room and rain hybrid teams. Hydro Pump, while inaccurate, has a large chance of OHKOing Tyranitar in sandstorm and, factoring in a Water Gem boost, deals heavy damage to anything that takes at least neutral damage from it, including even specially defensive Cresselia. Muddy Water is only slightly more accurate, but it has the ability to hit two Pokemon at once without harming your own and comes with a nice 47% chance to lower at least one of the opposing Pokemon's accuracy. Scald, while weaker or unable to hit two Pokemon at once, has the perk of a 30% chance to burn and perfect accuracy. Ice Beam is a staple coverage move for any Water-type, and Vaporeon is no exception. Besides Ferrothorn and pure Water-types, Ice Beam and your choice of a Water-type STAB move grant Vaporeon great neutral coverage, as well as putting the ever-dangerous Dragon-types on ice.</p>

<p>Helping Hand is naturally a great doubles support move, as it allows moves such as Thunder and Draco Meteor to climb to unimaginable levels of power. Normally, Vaporeon is completely walled by other Water-types, notably Gastrodon and Rotom-W; a quick and easy solution to this is Hidden Power Grass. However, against Rotom-W, it's not a guaranteed 2HKO, as it can outspeed and either OHKO or 2HKO Vaporeon outside of Trick Room. The last move depends on the ability of choice. If you want a good Water-type Trick Room sweeper, want to use Surf to restore Vaporeon's HP, or simply aren't interested in Hydration, Detect is the fourth move of choice alongside Water Absorb as Vaporeon's ability. Rest is obviously best used with Hydration, though if you don't need Helping Hand or Hidden Power Grass, Detect can fit snugly in the third slot.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs ensure that Vaporeon isn't OHKOed by Latios's Draco Meteor while accommodating for the drop in IVs when using Hidden Power Grass. 76 Special Defense EVs can be used to prevent Vaporeon from being OHKOed by Latios as well, but HP investment is generally better to improve Vaporeon's overall bulk. If you're not using Vaporeon in Trick Room, switch to a Modest nature and use a 31 Speed IV. As for items, a Wacan Berry fends off Electric-type moves such as Thunder for a turn, which is especially useful with Rest healing Vaporeon back up to full health while its partner takes care of the aggressor. If you're not interested in the insurance of a Wacan Berry nor power of a Water Gem, a Sitrus Berry is useful for instant healing so that Vaporeon don't have to immediately use Rest to recover from a move that would 2HKO it, such as Latios's Draco Meteor.</p>

<p>As a slow Pokemon, Vaporeon appreciates Trick Room support. Jellicent can be Vaporeon's partner in crime, as they can utilize each other's Water Absorb abilities in a Surf-spamming free-for-all, though their weaknesses overlap. Gallade can hit Ferrothorn hard with Close Combat, set up Trick Room, and support Vaporeon with moves such as Helping Hand and Will-O-Wisp. Dusclops performs a similar role, though its main form of offense is Night Shade. If you're using rain alongside Trick Room, Level 1 Whimsicott is a valuable teammate, as sandstorm and hail won't break its Focus Sash, allowing it to Endeavor or set up Trick Room in relative safety. Pokemon such as Reuniclus and Porygon2 are also good teammates that can complement Vaporeon's coverage with moves such as Thunder or Energy Ball. Other Trick Room abusers with the Lightningrod ability, such as Rhyperior and Marowak, make great partners as they synergize well with Vaporeon by taking care of Electric-type moves that may threaten Vaporeon.</p>

<p>When you want to use Hydration, the number one partner for the job is none other than Politoed. Though they have overlapping weaknesses, Politoed's rain support activates Hydration, and Vaporeon appreciates a boost to its Water-type moves. Despite Rotom-W and Ferrothorn being top threats to Vaporeon, they also make good teammates. Rotom-W can tackle the opposing Water-types that get in Vaporeon's way, while Ferrothorn is Hydration + Rest Vaporeon's partner in crime; together, they often stall out the 15 minute timer with their constant recovery and respectable bulk. Scizor works well in and out of Trick Room and can chow down on various threatening Grass-types with Bug Bite, as well as checking Abomasnow and Tyranitar, allowing you to keep your rain active.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Members of the Eevee family usually have shallow movepools, but Vaporeon's contains many interesting options such as Icy Wind, Fake Tears, Acid Armor, Yawn, Tickle, and Charm. Icy Wind is unfortunately illegal with Hydration, but it slows down opposing Pokemon if you use Vaporeon as a tank with Water Absorb. Fake Tears, Charm, and Tickle soften up opponents for both Vaporeon and its partner, while Acid Armor benefits Vaporeon only, making it useful for gang attacks or Psych Up combos. Yawn coupled with Detect is almost guaranteed to put a Pokemon to sleep, and if the opponent switches, it leaves them vulnerable to gang attacks. Protect can be used over Detect if you feel the extra PP is important, though Vaporeon is then more vulnerable to Imprison attempts. Rain Dance is useful when Politoed bites the dust too early and you need your rain for Hydration or Swift Swim partners. Shadow Ball hits common Psychic- and Ghost-type supporters super effectively, though it's even weaker than a Hydro Pump boosted by either rain or a Water Gem. As odd as it might seem coming off Vaporeon's poor Attack stat, Quick Attack is valuable to combat common Focus Sash users or finish off Pokemon hanging on by a sliver of health. Toxic and Hidden Power Fire are Vaporeon's only way of damaging Shedinja and Ferrothorn, and Toxic is useful when combined with Rest. Leftovers can be used over Sitrus Berry in case of an Item Clause clash, though it heals less than Sitrus Berry in an average match.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Like most Water-types, Grass-types give Vaporeon an extremely hard time. Breloom and Ferrothorn are two prime examples, as they can pelt Vaporeon's weaker Defense with Seed Bomb or Power Whip, or cripple it with Spore or Leech Seed. Abomasnow brings an unwelcome change of weather and can heal itself with Giga Drain given Vaporeon's enormous base HP. Ludicolo and Rotom-W are threats to any pure Water-type with STAB Giga Drain and Thunderbolt, and both benefit from rain, making them even bigger threats. Water Absorb Jellicent and Lapras completely wall Vaporeon without Hidden Power Grass and are able to use Energy Ball or Thunderbolt, respectively, to chip away at Vaporeon, though Rest + Hydration Vaporeon can weather the assaults. Physical Eelektross can light Vaporeon up with Wild Charge and outspeeds it in Trick Room, but Hydro Pump will definitely leave a dent if Eelektross can't outspeed it. Toxicroak is immune to Water-type moves, can use Drain Punch to deal damage and recover, and is able to Taunt to prevent Vaporeon from using Rest.</p>