[Overview]

<p>Zapdos's excellent typing and bulk allows it to check a multitude of common physical attackers such as Metagross and Garchomp. However, Zapdos distinguishes itself from other bulky Pokemon with its excellent offensive prowess; it features good Speed, high Special Attack, and excellent coverage. Although it might at first seem outclassed by Thundurus, Zapdos's greater bulk and access to Tailwind and Heat Wave keep it distinct from the genie. Unfortunately, Zapdos is weak to common spread attacks, such as Rock Slide and Blizzard, and it's also slower than several common threats, such as Latios, Weavile, and Terrakion. Overall, thanks to its bulk and power, Zapdos works well as part of a DisQuake duo, a rain attacker, a check to rain teams, or on a goodstuff team.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Thunderbolt / Discharge
move 2: Hidden Power Ice / Hidden Power Grass
move 3: Heat Wave
move 4: Detect / Tailwind
item: Sitrus Berry / Charti Berry / Yache Berry
nature: Modest
evs: 140 HP / 252 SpA / 116 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Thunderbolt and Hidden Power Ice have excellent coverage when used together, as Hidden Power Ice 2HKOes most of the Pokemon that resist Thunderbolt, such as Latios. Discharge can be used over Thunderbolt, as it is a spread attack and works well when paired with Earthquake, forming the well-known DisQuake combination. However, it is less powerful than Thunderbolt on a single target. If Zapdos is being used on a rain team, Hidden Power Grass can be used to deal with Swampert and Gastrodon, as the latter is a common check to rain teams. Heat Wave OHKOes Abomasnow and does severe damage to Ferrothorn, while doing slightly more damage to Metagross than Thunderbolt does. Detect allows Zapdos to avoid damage for a turn and lets its partner KO a threat. As an added plus, Imprison users such as Uxie will also not prevent Zapdos from using Detect, due to its limited distribution. Tailwind is also an option in the last moveslot, as it allows Zapdos to surprise weather teams and goodstuff teams with faster Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>Zapdos can use a variety of EV spreads, as its excellent natural bulk allows it to survive almost any attack with the right spread. The given EV spread allows it to outspeed Adamant Mamoswine, uninvested Chandelure, and maximum Speed Metagross, while giving it some good bulk as well. Dropping down to 32 Speed EVs and putting the remaining EVs into Defense gives Zapdos much more bulk, but still allows it to outrun 252+ Abomasnow, as well as uninvested Metagross and Politoed. If running Hidden Power Grass, the EV spread should be changed to 140 HP / 4 Def / 248 SpA / 116 Spe to account for the IV drop, although the extra 4 EVs can go into Special Defense if wanted. Zapdos's choice of item can also influence its choice of EV spread; while Sitrus Berry makes Zapdos more difficult to 2HKO, Charti Berry helps it take Rock Slides more easily, while Yache Berry allows it to brace a Blizzard. Electric Gem powers up Thunderbolt or Thunder, which can be very useful in certain situations. Speaking of Thunder, it is also an option in the first slot if Zapdos is used on a rain team for the added power and accuracy it brings to the table. For example, Electric Gem Thunder OHKOes 4 HP Terrakion.</p>

<p>Fake Out users such as Mienshao, Scrafty, Hitmontop, and Infernape make it easier for Zapdos to set up Tailwind, and thus are great partners. As Rock- and Ice-types can take advantage of Zapdos's weaknesses, a Fighting-type partner such as Toxicroak or Scrafty can prove very useful, as it can hit both these types for super effective damage, and can take advantage of Tailwind as well. Metagross also makes a solid partner as it resists all attacks that hit Zapdos for super effective damage, and can OHKO the likes of Abomasnow and Tyranitar.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Roost can let Zapdos stall out slower Rock Slides and Blizzards, allowing it to take better advantage of its multitude of resistances and good bulk. Rain Dance provides insurance if Politoed gets KOed, and can replace Detect or Heat Wave. Thunder Wave can help to slow down an opponent and the chance of full paralysis is handy, but Tailwind is often more useful and reliable. Roar can stop even Mental Herb users from setting up Trick Room, which is especially useful as Zapdos usually has trouble against most Trick Room teams. Light Screen doesn't have any specific use, but supports the team and allows Zapdos to take Blizzards more easily.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>Rotom-H is a perfect counter to Zapdos; it resists any attack Zapdos can use, and can 2HKO with Thunderbolt and Overheat. Tyranitar can take any attack and do severe damage in return with Rock Slide. Abomasnow has to watch out for Heat Wave, but it resists Thunderbolt and takes little damage from Hidden Power Ice. In return, Focus Sash and Occa Berry variants can easily do huge damage or even KO Zapdos with Blizzard, while Choice Scarf Abomasnow outspeeds and does severe damage before Zapdos can attack. Weavile outspeeds and does great damage with Ice Punch, possibly OHKOing as well. Terrakion doesn't take too much damage from any attack, and easily outspeeds and 2HKOes Zapdos with Rock Slide. Rhyperior is hurt by Hidden Power Ice and is OHKOed by Hidden Power Grass if lacking Solid Rock, but does huge damage in return with Rock Slide. Archeops can't switch into Thunderbolt or Hidden Power Ice, but maims Zapdos with Rock Slide. Latios is also an excellent check, as it outspeeds Zapdos and can shrug off Hidden Power Ice while OHKOing back with a Life Orb- or Dragon Gem-boosted Draco Meteor. In addition, Latios can't be baited by a resist Berry, unlike Abomasnow or Weavile; it has to watch out for bulkier variants with Thunder Wave or Tailwind, however. Specially defensive Latias and Blissey take very little from any attack, but must watch out for Toxic, which cripples them both.</p>

[Unreleased]

<p>Zapdos gets Lightningrod from the Dream World, which makes it immune to Thunder Wave and gives it a Special Attack boost when hit by an Electric-type attack. Not only will this make it an excellent partner to Water-types such as Politoed, but it also means Zapdos can be used very effectively in a combination with another Discharge user such as Thundurus to make its attacks even more powerful.</p>