[Overview]

<p>With a respectable base 105 Attack and base 120 Special Attack, and enough of a movepool to utilize them, Zoroark can do some serious damage if left alone. However, with its poor base 60 / 60 / 60 defenses, Zoroark can be OHKOed by powerful STAB moves. Fortunately for Zoroark, its unique ability, Illusion, helps it out both offensively and defensively. Illusion lets Zoroark masquerade as the last Pokemon selected in a team of four. However, thanks to Team Preview, the opponent will still be alerted to Zoroark's existence. While some might say that Team Preview ruins Zoroark's surprise factor, simply knowing that Zoroark might show up does not say anything about when it will actually reveal itself, or if it is even in the battle at all. With the right timing and the right Illusion, this master of disguise will leave the opponent wondering what just hit them.</p>

[SET]
name: Mixed Attacker
move 1: Sucker Punch
move 2: Dark Pulse / Night Daze
move 3: Flamethrower / Focus Blast
move 4: Protect
item: Focus Sash
nature: Lonely
evs: 252 Atk / 180 SpA / 76 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>Zoroark tends to get one good surprise attack on the opponent before he or she becomes aware of Zoroark's presence on the field. Sucker Punch is extremely effective, surprising opponents with an unexpected STAB priority attack. Dark Pulse is used in tandem with Sucker Punch for a secondary STAB move. It is also useful for striking down Trick Room users, as many are weak to Dark-type moves. Night Daze can be used over Dark Pulse if you're willing to trade a bit of accuracy for a bit more power; the choice between these moves is personal preference. Flamethrower allows Zoroark to catch Steel-types such as Ferrothorn and Scizor off-guard and deal heavy damage to them. Focus Blast can be used over Flamethrower, as it still hits Steel-types hard, while also enabling Zoroark to take on Pokemon such as Heatran and Tyranitar. However, Focus Blast's lackluster accuracy is a major issue. The last move for Zoroark is Protect, which is especially useful as it blocks incoming attacks while keeping Illusion intact. Using Protect will not give away Zoroark, as it is a common move on many Pokemon.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>76 Speed EVs give Zoroark 135 Speed, allowing it to outrun neutral-natured base 80 Speed Pokemon, as well as positive-natured base 70 Speed Pokemon. The rest of the EVs are invested into Zoroark's offense: maximize Attack and place the rest in Special Attack. If outrunning the aforementioned Pokemon is of no concern, the Speed EVs can instead go into Special Attack. Holding a Focus Sash allows Zoroark to get away with not investing in its defenses. An alternative EV spread along the lines of 252 HP / 252 Atk / 4 SpA can be used; the added survivability lets Zoroark hold a Life Orb without worrying as much about being OHKOed by strong STAB moves, such as Zapdos's Thunderbolt or rain sweepers' Surf. Life Orb balances out the lowered Special Attack, while boosting the power of Sucker Punch. Night Slash can be used over Dark Pulse or Night Daze as it will do more damage to most Trick Room users, who tend to be specially defensive. However, the two special attacks are slightly more powerful against Pokemon with equal defensive stats and have more useful secondary effects. Night Slash is recommended if running the alternative spread provided, though, as the Special Attack EVs are removed.</p>

<p>Illusion makes running Zoroark reliant on its team members in order to bring out its full potential. Its role can change drastically depending on what it is masquerading as and whether or not it leads in the battle. Masquerading as a Trick Room user, or Gastrodon against a rain team, for example, can draw attention away from Zoroark's partner, letting Zoroark play a more supportive role on a team. If it pretends to be a Fighting-type, Zoroark can draw Psychic-type moves to itself and waste the opponent's turn, while posing as a Ghost-type improves enables Zoroark to increase its survivability, and stops opponents from using Fake Out against it; both of these situations allow Zoroark to take on an offensive role. A word of caution when choosing a Pokemon for Illusion: Pokemon that have ability activation messages upon entry, such as Zapdos and Porygon2, make poor choices for Illusion, as Zoroark will not display these messages when it enters the battle, thus giving itself away before it gets to do anything. Zoroark partners well with Pokemon that have strong priority moves. Double-targeting an opponent with priority moves is a good way to grab quick KOs against many speedy Pokemon. Bulky Pokemon can use the diversion that Zoroark creates to soften the opponent up for surprise Sucker Punches. Lastly, it is usually not a good idea to pair Zoroark with a Fake Out user, as this increases the risk of Zoroark running into a Protect and its Illusion being broken.</p>

[SET]
name: Special Attacker
move 1: Dark Pulse / Night Daze
move 2: Flamethrower / Sucker Punch
move 3: Focus Blast / Sucker Punch
move 4: Protect
item: Focus Sash
nature: Timid / Hasty
evs: 4 HP / 252 SpA / 252 Spe

[SET COMMENTS]

<p>This set focuses on putting Zoroark's base 105 Speed to use. Dark Pulse serves as Zoroark's main attack and is interchangeable with Night Daze, trading a bit of accuracy for extra power. Flamethrower and Focus Blast provide good coverage, allowing Zoroark to hit hard against many common Pokemon, such as Tyranitar, Metagross, and Abomasnow. Sucker Punch can be used instead of one of these moves as it can still do some respectable damage, and priority moves are always welcome on any moveset. However, it will leave some gaps in Zoroark's offensive coverage. Lastly, Protect allows Zoroark to block incoming attacks and maintain Illusion.</p>

[ADDITIONAL COMMENTS]

<p>The EVs allow Zoroark to hit as hard and as fast as possible. Zoroark's high Speed makes it less dependent on Illusion, although it still appreciates the offensive openings that are created by its ability. Focus Sash allows Zoroark to take a hit without the worry of being OHKOed. A Dark Gem or Life Orb can be used over a Focus Sash to provide some extra firepower behind Zoroark's moves, but leaves it at the mercy of the many Pokemon that can outpace and and OHKO it, such as Latios, meaning that Zoroark will have to rely heavily on Illusion in order to avoid being OHKOed. If Sucker Punch is used, a Hasty nature should be used instead of a Timid one. 44 Attack EVs along with a Life Orb guarantees that Sucker Punch OHKOes 4 HP Latios.</p>

<p>Zoroark is at its best when outrunning and KOing an opponent, while pretending to be a Pokemon that normally cannot do much in the given situation; a few ways to accomplish this include having a lead setup that makes foes weak to Dark- or Fire-type moves drop their guard, or using Zoroark as a revenge killer. For example, if Zoroark impersonates a Fighting-type, it can lure Psychic-type enemies into wasting a turn using a STAB attack on Zoroark, while it strikes at them with a Dark Pulse. Alternatively, Zoroark can use Illusion to act as a diversion, such as by posing as a Trick Room user. Keep in mind when choosing a Pokemon for an Illusion that Zoroark does not display ability activation messages upon entry. Thus, letting Zoroark pose as Pokemon such as Dusclops or Zapdos will immediately alert the opponent that Zoroark is on the field. Fast Pokemon, especially Latios, can work well with Zoroark, as they can cover each other's weaknesses, while maintaining decent Speed control over the opponent. Bulky Pokemon can also be used alongside Zoroark as Zoroark can provide a great diversion. Lastly, Fake Out users tend to not work well with Zoroark, as they encourage the use of Protect, which is counterproductive as Zoroark mainly tries to get the opponent to let down their guard.</p>

[Other Options]

<p>Grass Knot can be useful to hit Water-types super effectively. Hidden Power Ice can be useful as Zoroark can outrun Pokemon such as Salamence, Garchomp, and Landorus, and hit them hard. Substitute is an interesting option for Zoroark, as damage dealt to a Substitute does not break Zoroark's Illusion. Substitute variants of Zoroark also pair well with Fake Out users. However, a few issues arise: Zoroark's frailty means that just about anything will be able to break its Substitutes, and the opponent will likely get suspicious if the Pokemon Zoroark is masquerading as suddenly outruns something it should not normally be able to. Zoroark can use Taunt to disrupt support moves, particularly Trick Room or Tailwind, and from behind an Illusion, can catch opponents off-guard. Lastly, Counter can allow Zoroark to deal the ultimate surprise attack against physical attackers, but it is extremely risky.</p>

[Checks and Counters]

<p>It can be a bit difficult to try to handle Zoroark without knowing if it is even present on the field. About all that can be done is to wait for it to show itself, or show that it's not around. A bit of caution can go a long way. Once Zoroark has shown itself, Fighting-types tend to be best in confronting it. Hitmontop, Conkeldurr, and Terrakion in particular can easily take Zoroark's attacks and OHKO it with Fighting-type moves. Tyranitar and Heatran can also wall Zoroark as long as Zoroark doesn't run Focus Blast.</p>